Links_GolfTips2024a.md, before:

# Golf tips - 2024


## Short game

1. [The Art of Simple Golf: Alex Fortey | Golf Putting Consistency Simplified: Learn How to Putt with These 3 Easy Steps (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3cjCJlHZEs)

1. [Rick Shiels Golf | Tommy Fleetwood's BEST short game tips (copy to IMPROVE!) (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EorjUQ7-twg)
   - Chipping
   - Bunker shot
   - Putting

1. [BE BETTER GOLF: Brendon DeVore | FORGET "USE THE BOUNCE" . CAN'T MISS SHORT game METHOD with TOUR PRO BERRY HENSON (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=018yVNyuG44)
￼

## Long game

1. [Performance Golf: Eric Cogorno | Arms Straight In The Golf Swing (My Favorite Tip) (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mrR7jnXmckg)
   - The long-arc follow through
     * The best ball strikers get the club head and their hands *as far away as possible without their head moving forward*
   - ¾ swing drill: From horizontal-to-horizontal with say 8-iron
     * Arms straight, hence elbows close together
     * Rotation: Rotate body through impact
     * Extension: Extend chest up during follow through
     * Side bend: Your trail shoulder should be lower in the follow through
   - [GOLF: Finish Your Swing | How To Swing To A Full Finish (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nVlCZv-sWTs):
     Similar video with a slightly different emphasis

1. [Coach Lockey: Matt Lockey | 5 ft 8... 70 kg... 300 YARD DRIVES! My Golf Driver Swing Cheats… (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5rWk8VBGMoQ)
   - Tip 0: Pre-game warm up
   - Tip 1: Turn more: get your right hip back
   - Tip 2: Turn even more: Allow your left heel to come off the ground during the backswing (and to stomp into the ground early during the down swing)
   - Tip 3: Slow the hands down during the down swing
     * Although I think they mean the same thing, his definition of fast/slow hands appears to be the opposite of Julian Mellor below

1. [ChrisRyanGolf | Learn This And The Game Can Feel So Simple (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YBj3jLTAPWI)
   - The golf swing consists of 3 body-moves which are blended:
     * rotation
     * forward (and backward) bend
     * tilt
   - At address, we have *forward bend*
   - At the top of the backswing, we have *rotation* and *tilt*
   - Drill 1: How to find the correct body position at the top of the backswing:
     * Take your address position
     * Stand up straight (bend elbows so your forearms are horizontal; hold club vertically with club head at the top)
     * Rotate so your shoulders to 90° (with left shoulder forward)
     * Tilt from the hips so that your left shoulder moves towards the ball; [as you do this:
       + Your left knee will bend more
       + Your right leg will extend so it is almost straight]
   - Drill 2: Hip movement during the backswing
     * Stand near a wall with your left foot against the wall and shoulders/hips 90° to the wall
     * Put a ~6" (~15cm) diameter ball between your left hip and the wall; your hip position should hold it in place
     * Put an alignment stick (or club) across your shoulders
     * Take a backswing from the address position while ensuring that your hip continues to hold the ball in place
   - Important: After improving the student's swing, it was necessary to make a corresponding change to the ball position at address

1. [Julian Mellor - Proper Golfing Swing Method | FAST hands v SLOW hands = MORE DISTANCE (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UTZBdtVkG1Y)
   - Although I think they mean the same thing, his definition of fast/slow hands appears to be the opposite of Matt Lockey above
   - Slow hands (bad)
     * During the downswing, we *pull* (down) with the *back of the lead hand*
     * A chopping action
     * Slows the club head down
     * Leaves the club face open
     * At impact, the hands are behind the body
     * Not much *release*
   - Fast hands (good)
     * Produce more club head speed and squares the club face much better (hence longer straighter golf shots)
     * Let the dominant (right) hand hit the ball
     * Let the dominant (right) hand square up the club face
     * The hands *release* as the club face approaches impact
     * We *do not flip* (i.e. allow the club head to get ahead of the hands) because we blend this movement with body rotation
     * This release sends the ball further with less effort
     * Drill 1: Practice hitting a ball with feet together so the body is not too involved
     * Drill 2: Hit an imaginary flower head by:
       + Holding the shaft one handed with the dominant (right) hand near the club head
       + Pretend to hit an object in front of you (e.g. a flower head) with the handle by *releasing* the club (stick)
       + Swing roughly horizontally

1. Monte Scheinblum
   - [Hip Turn and Knee Flex-Golf Swing (video) | 2014](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ihedpsV15Us)
   - [Deep Hip Turn (video) | 2012](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UW9ZCeA19vs)

1. [AlexElliottGolf | 5 Minutes of This is Better Than Hitting 1000s of Balls at the Range! (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H7hqJz5M7wE)

1. [Matthew Galley | Amazing DRILL to Keep the Left Arm STRAIGHT! (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ec5zV58IqDo)


### Stay *connected* in the golf swing

1. [JChownGolf: Jonathan Chown | HOW TO STAY CONNECTED IN THE GOLF SWING (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D4sVpa9PHMg)

1. [ChrisRyanGolf | GOLF SWING: STAY CONNECTED (video) | 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bph8QN1Rmqo)

1. [Top Speed Golf: Clay Ballard | How to Stay Connected in Golf (video) | 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LySlOC7Q9pE)


### Downswing

1. [ChrisRyanGolf | Your Trail Arm Really Messed Up Your Swing (How to fix it) (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wqvMR0gH-yI)

1. [Golf with Coach Carolin: Carolin Pinegger | Top of the Backswing...What NOW? Let's optimize this KEY SWING MOVE! (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TZtd6JZuxpw)
   - How to shallow the angle of the club (i.e. make more horizontal) at the start of the downswing
     * Each of these *feels* promote an in-to-out swing path (i.e. baby draw)
     * [A shallow angle at impact allows a divot to be long but not deep, hence potentially more forgiving.]
   - Feel #1: Feel the right shoulder drop (i.e. move away from your right ear)
   - Feel #2: Feel that your right elbow comes down into your right pocket
   - Feel #3: Feel that you remain with your back to the target at the start of the down swing
     (i.e. while your hands start to *drop into the slot*)


### Release

1. [WorldClassGolf: Craig Hanson | Why Amateurs can’t create Excellence? (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P7b9QPnM6Es)
   - [Why 99% of Amateurs can't create the PGA Release! - SIMPLE! (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BrfhVXZdeaU)

1. [ChrisRyanGolf | How To RELEASE The Golf Club - This Will BLOW YOUR MIND (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YrNu0DKB3ys)

1. [Jonathan Kim-Moss Golf | HOW TO RELEASE THE GOLF CLUB (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y_icyjq4B7A)
   - [BEGINNER SERIES (playlist) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL9LXECPA3NlXMPgah2bAs8R9nopsBa6vg)

1. [Scratch Golf Academy: Adam Bazalgette | How To Release The Golf Club (DO THIS!) (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QGMMjaL68Ac)


### Follow through

1. [ChrisRyanGolf | HOW TO COMPLETE YOUR GOLF FOLLOW THROUGH (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf0v-iCntNo)

1. [Rick Shiels Golf | THE FOLLOW THROUGH & FINISH POSITION - THE COMPLETE GOLF SWING GUIDE (video) | 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hXNXt94hOI)
   - [THE COMPLETE GOLF SWING GUIDE (playlist)](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLKnkfgDBi62mkWMNmNipPUUep6vcj8nYm)

1. [Steve Pratt Golf | This 'Petite' Girl Swings Faster than the PGA Tour Average - HERE'S HOW! (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CXWtMWKOVSQ)


### Footwork

1. [Padraig Harrington | What Nobody Tells You About Footwork in the Golf Swing (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wWCvecJ_82w)

Commit message:

Add link re swing plane and release

Links_GolfTips2024a.md, after:

# Golf tips - 2024


## Short game

1. [The Art of Simple Golf: Alex Fortey | Golf Putting Consistency Simplified: Learn How to Putt with These 3 Easy Steps (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3cjCJlHZEs)

1. [Rick Shiels Golf | Tommy Fleetwood's BEST short game tips (copy to IMPROVE!) (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EorjUQ7-twg)
   - Chipping
   - Bunker shot
   - Putting

1. [BE BETTER GOLF: Brendon DeVore | FORGET "USE THE BOUNCE" . CAN'T MISS SHORT game METHOD with TOUR PRO BERRY HENSON (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=018yVNyuG44)
￼

## Long game

1. [Performance Golf: Eric Cogorno | Arms Straight In The Golf Swing (My Favorite Tip) (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mrR7jnXmckg)
   - The long-arc follow through
     * The best ball strikers get the club head and their hands *as far away as possible without their head moving forward*
   - ¾ swing drill: From horizontal-to-horizontal with say 8-iron
     * Arms straight, hence elbows close together
     * Rotation: Rotate body through impact
     * Extension: Extend chest up during follow through
     * Side bend: Your trail shoulder should be lower in the follow through
   - [GOLF: Finish Your Swing | How To Swing To A Full Finish (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nVlCZv-sWTs):
     Similar video with a slightly different emphasis

1. [Coach Lockey: Matt Lockey | 5 ft 8... 70 kg... 300 YARD DRIVES! My Golf Driver Swing Cheats… (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5rWk8VBGMoQ)
   - Tip 0: Pre-game warm up
   - Tip 1: Turn more: get your right hip back
   - Tip 2: Turn even more: Allow your left heel to come off the ground during the backswing (and to stomp into the ground early during the down swing)
   - Tip 3: Slow the hands down during the down swing
     * Although I think they mean the same thing, his definition of fast/slow hands appears to be the opposite of Julian Mellor below

1. [ChrisRyanGolf | Learn This And The Game Can Feel So Simple (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YBj3jLTAPWI)
   - The golf swing consists of 3 body-moves which are blended:
     * rotation
     * forward (and backward) bend
     * tilt
   - At address, we have *forward bend*
   - At the top of the backswing, we have *rotation* and *tilt*
   - Drill 1: How to find the correct body position at the top of the backswing:
     * Take your address position
     * Stand up straight (bend elbows so your forearms are horizontal; hold club vertically with club head at the top)
     * Rotate so your shoulders to 90° (with left shoulder forward)
     * Tilt from the hips so that your left shoulder moves towards the ball; [as you do this:
       + Your left knee will bend more
       + Your right leg will extend so it is almost straight]
   - Drill 2: Hip movement during the backswing
     * Stand near a wall with your left foot against the wall and shoulders/hips 90° to the wall
     * Put a ~6" (~15cm) diameter ball between your left hip and the wall; your hip position should hold it in place
     * Put an alignment stick (or club) across your shoulders
     * Take a backswing from the address position while ensuring that your hip continues to hold the ball in place
   - Important: After improving the student's swing, it was necessary to make a corresponding change to the ball position at address

1. [Julian Mellor - Proper Golfing Swing Method | FAST hands v SLOW hands = MORE DISTANCE (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UTZBdtVkG1Y)
   - Although I think they mean the same thing, his definition of fast/slow hands appears to be the opposite of Matt Lockey above
   - Slow hands (bad)
     * During the downswing, we *pull* (down) with the *back of the lead hand*
     * A chopping action
     * Slows the club head down
     * Leaves the club face open
     * At impact, the hands are behind the body
     * Not much *release*
   - Fast hands (good)
     * Produce more club head speed and squares the club face much better (hence longer straighter golf shots)
     * Let the dominant (right) hand hit the ball
     * Let the dominant (right) hand square up the club face
     * The hands *release* as the club face approaches impact
     * We *do not flip* (i.e. allow the club head to get ahead of the hands) because we blend this movement with body rotation
     * This release sends the ball further with less effort
     * Drill 1: Practice hitting a ball with feet together so the body is not too involved
     * Drill 2: Hit an imaginary flower head by:
       + Holding the shaft one handed with the dominant (right) hand near the club head
       + Pretend to hit an object in front of you (e.g. a flower head) with the handle by *releasing* the club (stick)
       + Swing roughly horizontally

1. Monte Scheinblum
   - [The ultimate golf lesson: Plane and Release by feel (video) | 2009](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-FH5r5_tROU)
   - [Hip Turn and Knee Flex-Golf Swing (video) | 2014](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ihedpsV15Us)
   - [Deep Hip Turn (video) | 2012](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UW9ZCeA19vs)

1. [AlexElliottGolf | 5 Minutes of This is Better Than Hitting 1000s of Balls at the Range! (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H7hqJz5M7wE)

1. [Matthew Galley | Amazing DRILL to Keep the Left Arm STRAIGHT! (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ec5zV58IqDo)


### Stay *connected* in the golf swing

1. [JChownGolf: Jonathan Chown | HOW TO STAY CONNECTED IN THE GOLF SWING (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D4sVpa9PHMg)

1. [ChrisRyanGolf | GOLF SWING: STAY CONNECTED (video) | 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bph8QN1Rmqo)

1. [Top Speed Golf: Clay Ballard | How to Stay Connected in Golf (video) | 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LySlOC7Q9pE)


### Downswing

1. [ChrisRyanGolf | Your Trail Arm Really Messed Up Your Swing (How to fix it) (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wqvMR0gH-yI)

1. [Golf with Coach Carolin: Carolin Pinegger | Top of the Backswing...What NOW? Let's optimize this KEY SWING MOVE! (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TZtd6JZuxpw)
   - How to shallow the angle of the club (i.e. make more horizontal) at the start of the downswing
     * Each of these *feels* promote an in-to-out swing path (i.e. baby draw)
     * [A shallow angle at impact allows a divot to be long but not deep, hence potentially more forgiving.]
   - Feel #1: Feel the right shoulder drop (i.e. move away from your right ear)
   - Feel #2: Feel that your right elbow comes down into your right pocket
   - Feel #3: Feel that you remain with your back to the target at the start of the down swing
     (i.e. while your hands start to *drop into the slot*)


### Release

1. [WorldClassGolf: Craig Hanson | Why Amateurs can’t create Excellence? (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P7b9QPnM6Es)
   - [Why 99% of Amateurs can't create the PGA Release! - SIMPLE! (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BrfhVXZdeaU)

1. [ChrisRyanGolf | How To RELEASE The Golf Club - This Will BLOW YOUR MIND (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YrNu0DKB3ys)

1. [Jonathan Kim-Moss Golf | HOW TO RELEASE THE GOLF CLUB (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y_icyjq4B7A)
   - [BEGINNER SERIES (playlist) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL9LXECPA3NlXMPgah2bAs8R9nopsBa6vg)

1. [Scratch Golf Academy: Adam Bazalgette | How To Release The Golf Club (DO THIS!) (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QGMMjaL68Ac)


### Follow through

1. [ChrisRyanGolf | HOW TO COMPLETE YOUR GOLF FOLLOW THROUGH (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf0v-iCntNo)

1. [Rick Shiels Golf | THE FOLLOW THROUGH & FINISH POSITION - THE COMPLETE GOLF SWING GUIDE (video) | 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hXNXt94hOI)
   - [THE COMPLETE GOLF SWING GUIDE (playlist)](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLKnkfgDBi62mkWMNmNipPUUep6vcj8nYm)

1. [Steve Pratt Golf | This 'Petite' Girl Swings Faster than the PGA Tour Average - HERE'S HOW! (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CXWtMWKOVSQ)


### Footwork

1. [Padraig Harrington | What Nobody Tells You About Footwork in the Golf Swing (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wWCvecJ_82w)
