Links_KinematicSequence.md, before:

# The Golf Kinematic Sequence

## Introduction

1. [Titleist Performance Institute: Phil Cheetham | The Linear Kinematic Sequence](https://www.mytpi.com/articles/biomechanics/the-linear-kinematic-sequence)
   - It is known that there is an efficient sequence of motion in a skilled
     golf swing called the Kinematic Sequence. It describes the ...
     sequencing of the rotation speeds of the body segments.
   - Each body segment; pelvis, ribcage and arm sequentially accelerates and
     decelerates before impact, starting from the inner large body segments;
     the pelvis and ribcage, then progressing to the smaller outer segments;
     the arms, hands and club.
   - Each successive segment peaks faster and later than the previous segment.
   - This action causes the club to accelerate rapidly and reach its highest
     speed at impact.

1. [Golfwell: Cordie Walker | Understanding the Kinematic Sequence w/ Dr Phil Cheetham (podcast) | 2017](https://golfwell.co/kinematic-sequence/)


## Acceleration sequence in the downswing

1. [ChrisRyanGolf | PERFECT GOLF SWING SEQUENCE (video) | 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q-lBOZzsaj4&t=48s)
1. [Golf Coach: Dr. Noel | Learn the Pro Golf Swing Sequence for Effortless Power (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9aeUOVFW3Io)
1. [Lucas Wald | Can You Make a Perfect Slow Motion Golf Swing? (video) | 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ra3c5XSpGZ0)
1. [Visual Golf | Adam Scott Golf Swing Sequence and Slowmotion (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=akoPRy4k5Zg)
1. [Paul Wilson Golf | Golf Instruction - How To Get That Slow Easy Swing (video) | 2012](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rFxh7hhXwjI)
1. [andrewkigerpga | Crack The Whip (power for your golf swing) (video) | 2012](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=53u2RsKcHmU)
   - Load | store | release
1. [Eric Cogorno Golf with Trevor Salzman | The TRICK to Leading With Your Hips In The Golf Swing (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=veBaQOxnkes&t=2m31s)


## Decelaration sequence at release

1. [MyGolfDNA - Chris Tyler | Learn How To Post Up At Impact Like A PRO | Golf Impact Drill (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2Fl30Oy3yks)
   - He did a similar video [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fzI4nmtMtDM)

1. RotarySwing.com Golf Instruction: Chuck Quinton
   - [How to Add Power to Your Golf Swing: The Secret of Snapping the Club for Maximum Distance (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MVwA55N-poc)
   - [I Can Make Your Downswing World Class w/ These 2 SIMPLE Moves (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DwR-E4WKTfc&t=1m49s)
   - Lead/left arm: [Learn How Tiger Woods Creates Effortless Speed in the Golf Swing (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DXHjobJ20qw)
   - [Frisbee Drill for Sequencing Downswing & Creating CRAZY Lag (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FlGm5CbXe_g)
     * Downswing should be lead (left) arm dominant
     * Lead-arm only drill creates effortless lag (i.e. wrist angle) on the downswing
     * [5m12] Frisbee analogy
   - Student coaching lessons:
     * [28m] [Is Deceleration More Important than Acceleration in the Golf Swing? (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K6OA8UGq3FI)
     * [33m] [How to Sequence the Golf Downswing (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NRhp4V1f7Nk)
     * [The last 27m] [Golf Lesson - Learn How to Post Up Like the Pros (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vA-efF-18EI&t=12m6s)

1. Others who teach that straightening the left knee produces power
   - [Scratch Golf Academy | Left Knee In The Golf Downswing (COPY THIS MOVE!) (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_aLjlOwulTg&t=7m18s)
   - [Hitting It Solid Golf | Golf Swing Left Knee Movement Is Key ➜ Produce Amazing Consistency (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5vdiLRmy2Fo&t=2m05s)
   - [Top Speed Golf - Clay Ballard | Golf Swing | Left Knee Movement is Key (video) | 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fs9BptF0YoY&t=180s)


1. [Jonathan Kim-Moss Golf](Links_JonathanKimMoss.md)
   - Release section

1. [Chowardgolf | Decelerating in the Golf Swing, It Can Lead to Bombs! (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1VEY_FpdQho)
   - Description & short-swing drill

1. [KMotionInc | Want to Create More Power? Decelerate To Accelerate (video) | 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4QYC3fmelYE&t=4m29s)
   - [4m29] Drill 2 Towel drill
   - [5m27] Drill 3 Punch shot

1. [SwingStation | Golf Lesson - Cracking The Whip at Impact (video) | 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i6QANDeMDq4)
   - Description & stop-quick drill (when holding clubhead end)

Commit message:

Add Herman Williams & James Parker links

Links_KinematicSequence.md, after:

# The Golf Kinematic Sequence

## Introduction

1. [Titleist Performance Institute: Phil Cheetham | The Linear Kinematic Sequence](https://www.mytpi.com/articles/biomechanics/the-linear-kinematic-sequence)
   - It is known that there is an efficient sequence of motion in a skilled
     golf swing called the Kinematic Sequence. It describes the ...
     sequencing of the rotation speeds of the body segments.
   - Each body segment; pelvis, ribcage and arm sequentially accelerates and
     decelerates before impact, starting from the inner large body segments;
     the pelvis and ribcage, then progressing to the smaller outer segments;
     the arms, hands and club.
   - Each successive segment peaks faster and later than the previous segment.
   - This action causes the club to accelerate rapidly and reach its highest
     speed at impact.

1. [Golfwell: Cordie Walker | Understanding the Kinematic Sequence w/ Dr Phil Cheetham (podcast) | 2017](https://golfwell.co/kinematic-sequence/)


## Acceleration sequence in the downswing

1. Herman Williams Golf
   - [Wrist Action in Golf Swing for Lag, Speed, Power & Distance (video) | 2011](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JcOD_wdrEeo)
   - [Transition in Golf Swing - Part 2 of Speed, Power & Distance Series (video) | 2011](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K0OetcVjHeM)
   - [Impact & Finish in Golf Swing - Pt 3 of Distance in Golf Series (video) | 2011](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GLLR_9gFcKs)

1. [ChrisRyanGolf | PERFECT GOLF SWING SEQUENCE (video) | 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q-lBOZzsaj4&t=48s)
1. [Golf Coach: Dr. Noel | Learn the Pro Golf Swing Sequence for Effortless Power (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9aeUOVFW3Io)
1. [Lucas Wald | Can You Make a Perfect Slow Motion Golf Swing? (video) | 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ra3c5XSpGZ0)
1. [Visual Golf | Adam Scott Golf Swing Sequence and Slowmotion (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=akoPRy4k5Zg)
1. [Paul Wilson Golf | Golf Instruction - How To Get That Slow Easy Swing (video) | 2012](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rFxh7hhXwjI)
1. [andrewkigerpga | Crack The Whip (power for your golf swing) (video) | 2012](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=53u2RsKcHmU)
   - Load | store | release
1. [Eric Cogorno Golf with Trevor Salzman | The TRICK to Leading With Your Hips In The Golf Swing (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=veBaQOxnkes&t=2m31s)

1. James Parker Golf
   - [Part 1 – How To Load The Club During The Back Swing | 2014-2024](https://www.jamesparkergolf.com/load-the-club-during-the-backswing/)
   - [Part 2 – Foot Pressure In The Golf Swing & How To Feel It | 2014-2024](https://www.jamesparkergolf.com/foot-pressure-in-the-golf-swing/)
   - [Part 3 – Golf Swing Side Tilting & Extending | Weight & Pressure Data | 2015-2024](http://www.jamesparkergolf.com/golf-swing-side-tilting-and-extending-weight-pressure-data/)


## Decelaration sequence at release

1. [MyGolfDNA - Chris Tyler | Learn How To Post Up At Impact Like A PRO | Golf Impact Drill (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2Fl30Oy3yks)
   - He did a similar video [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fzI4nmtMtDM)

1. RotarySwing.com Golf Instruction: Chuck Quinton
   - [How to Add Power to Your Golf Swing: The Secret of Snapping the Club for Maximum Distance (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MVwA55N-poc)
   - [I Can Make Your Downswing World Class w/ These 2 SIMPLE Moves (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DwR-E4WKTfc&t=1m49s)
   - Lead/left arm: [Learn How Tiger Woods Creates Effortless Speed in the Golf Swing (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DXHjobJ20qw)
   - [Frisbee Drill for Sequencing Downswing & Creating CRAZY Lag (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FlGm5CbXe_g)
     * Downswing should be lead (left) arm dominant
     * Lead-arm only drill creates effortless lag (i.e. wrist angle) on the downswing
     * [5m12] Frisbee analogy
   - Student coaching lessons:
     * [28m] [Is Deceleration More Important than Acceleration in the Golf Swing? (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K6OA8UGq3FI)
     * [33m] [How to Sequence the Golf Downswing (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NRhp4V1f7Nk)
     * [The last 27m] [Golf Lesson - Learn How to Post Up Like the Pros (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vA-efF-18EI&t=12m6s)

1. Others who teach that straightening the left knee produces power
   - [Scratch Golf Academy | Left Knee In The Golf Downswing (COPY THIS MOVE!) (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_aLjlOwulTg&t=7m18s)
   - [Hitting It Solid Golf | Golf Swing Left Knee Movement Is Key ➜ Produce Amazing Consistency (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5vdiLRmy2Fo&t=2m05s)
   - [Top Speed Golf - Clay Ballard | Golf Swing | Left Knee Movement is Key (video) | 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fs9BptF0YoY&t=180s)


1. [Jonathan Kim-Moss Golf](Links_JonathanKimMoss.md)
   - Release section

1. [Chowardgolf | Decelerating in the Golf Swing, It Can Lead to Bombs! (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1VEY_FpdQho)
   - Description & short-swing drill

1. [KMotionInc | Want to Create More Power? Decelerate To Accelerate (video) | 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4QYC3fmelYE&t=4m29s)
   - [4m29] Drill 2 Towel drill
   - [5m27] Drill 3 Punch shot

1. [SwingStation | Golf Lesson - Cracking The Whip at Impact (video) | 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i6QANDeMDq4)
   - Description & stop-quick drill (when holding clubhead end)
