Links_PadraigHarrington.md, before:

# Padraig Harrington - Paddy's Golf Tips

[Padraig Harrington | YouTube channel | 2020-2022](https://www.youtube.com/c/PadraigHarringtonOfficial/videos)


## Club head speed

1. [Padraig Harrington | INCREASING SPEED IN THE GOLF SWING | Paddy's Golf Tip #13 (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ebtaeTd2n-Q)
   - General:
     * He thinks that most golfers would benefit from a *short backswing* and *long follow through*,
     * 70% of speed comes from wrists (the last lever)
     * You must swing your arms fast
     * Turning body/hips only produces a marginal speed increase
     * For *amateurs*, get the body to respond to the hands and arms (not the other way around)
   - Set up (see driving tip #12 below):
     * Comfortable wide stance (but not too wide)
     * Feet slightly turned outwards
     * Ball inside left heel
     * For amateurs, tee the ball fairly high (for high launch and small draw)
   - During backswing:
     * Move your feet (up and down) before you start your backswing
     * Lift the left heel during backswing
     * Get hands high
     * Stop the backswing *just before* your maximum stretch (and before you lift your body). [Stop/transition in an athletic position]
   - During down swing [see 8m45s - 9m20s]:
     * "Sit" into the left side [i.e. squat]
     * Right foot pushes knee "in" (towards the target)
     * Right side moves down and through
   - Finish:
     * do a full 90° hip turn
     * right shoulder is the closer to the target than left shoulder (if you are flexible enough)
     * most weight on left side
       + most weight on your (flat) left foot
       + some weight on right toes
     * upper body is centered (in terms of left/right of target line) and back (slightly away from the target)
   - Drill 1 - speed:
     * get simple monitor to measure club head speed (without a ball)
     * 20-30 swings once per week
     * swing as fast as you can; "let yourself go"
     * for practice only, he likes to do a short backswing then "rip into it"
     * follow through should always be longer than backswing
     * experiment with short/long swings (to see which gives the fastest speed for you)
   - Drill 2 - jump:
     * do not need to swing at "full pace"
     * jump during impact
     * left side is exploding up
     * right side is staying down, pushing under and through
     * so during jump, right leg goes forward as the left leg goes back (resulting in a twist in the air)
     * the result is a jump and a twist
   - Trivia:
     * Padraig can hit the ball 190mph on a good day
     * [if smash factor of 1.5, this would imply 127mph club head speed]
     * he has carbon fibre VKTRY (pronounced "victory") insoles in his shoes
   - Tom House:
     * [Hitting It Solid - Troy Vayanos | Increase Golf Swing Speed: 8 Ways To Put In On Turbo-Drive | 2015](https://hittingitsolid.com/blog/increase-your-golf-swing-speed)
     * [Golf Digest | Increase Your Swing Speed (gallery of 8 slides) | 2013](https://www.golfdigest.com/gallery/fitness-increase-swing-speed)
     * [Golf Digest - Liz Bergren |Fitness Friday: How to swing the club faster (Part I) | 2013](https://www.golfdigest.com/story/fitness-friday-slow-down-to-sp)
     * [Golf Digest - Liz Bergren |Fitness Friday: How to swing the club faster (Part II) | 2013](https://www.golfdigest.com/story/fitness-friday-how-to-swing-th)
     * [Golf Digest - Liz Bergren |Fitness Friday: How to swing the club faster (Part III) | 2013](https://www.golfdigest.com/story/fitness-friday-how-to-swing-th-1)

1. [Padraig Harrington |[PT. 1] YOU'VE GOT TO GET YOUR WRISTS ACTIVE IN THE SWING | Paddy's Golf Tip #8 (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WxtyPwYs5IE)
   - Principles:
     * 70% of speed comes from wrists; we want "active" wrists 
     * Wrists give face control
   - Grip:
     * Take a good grip ("all in the fingers") with *light pressure*
     * If you feel you have to strangle the club then the grip isn't right
     * You should be able to freely move the club around (in all directions)
   - Drill 1 - speed:
     * Narrow stance (feet virtually together)
     * Active wrists (kind of "flipping")
     * Use a 9 iron?
     * Hit a very firm long chip (perhaps 80 yards)
     * Repeat while getting more aggressive:
       + perhaps 110 yards
       + then longer
       + then as far as you can [150 yards for Padraig; similar length to a full 9 iron]
   - Drill 2 - speed:
     * Use a 9 iron?
     * Line up 5-6 balls in a row (perpendicular to the target line; with 1-2 ball gap between each)
     * Hit (flick) the closest ball
     * Swing back from follow through position all the way to backswing/flick position; at the same time step forward by the distance between the balls
     * Repeat the above 2 steps
   - Drill 3 - learn face control:
     * Use a 9 iron?
     * Alternate 2 exaggerated shots then repeat
     * Use a lot of wrist action for each of the 2 shots
     * First flip under the ball with an open club face to hit a high cut (like in table tennis)
     * Second, flip "over the top" (like a top spin shot in tennis) to hit a low draw
     * Repeat those 2 shots many times

1. [[PT. 2] WRISTS IN THE SWING- THE DETAILS | Paddy's Golf Tip #9 (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TWswmz_XE7c)
   - Normal backswing
   - When starting the down swing, pronate the wrists by around 20°
   - By the time you reach impact, the wrists will be pronated by around 5° (in other words, the wrists are in the process of extending)


## Long game

1. [Padraig Harrington | THE SECRET TO EFFECTIVE DRIVING | Paddy's Golf Tip #12 (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QxjnF_-eKA)

1. [Padraig Harrington | HITTING DRAWS AND FADES | Paddy's Golf Tip #11 (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IEcJIrVtiM0)


## About Padraig Harrington

1. [PGA Tour | Padraig Harrington ACHIEVEMENTS, PROFILE, etc.](https://www.pgatour.com/players/player.20766.padraig-harrington.html)
1. [Wikipedia | Pádraig Harrington](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/P%C3%A1draig_Harrington)
1. [Padraig Harrington's web site](https://padraigharrington.com)

Commit message:

Bunker links from Padraig Harrington & others

Links_PadraigHarrington.md, after:

# Padraig Harrington - Paddy's Golf Tips

[Padraig Harrington | YouTube channel | 2020-2022](https://www.youtube.com/c/PadraigHarringtonOfficial/videos)


## Club head speed

1. [Padraig Harrington | INCREASING SPEED IN THE GOLF SWING | Paddy's Golf Tip #13 (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ebtaeTd2n-Q)
   - General:
     * He thinks that most golfers would benefit from a *short backswing* and *long follow through*,
     * 70% of speed comes from wrists (the last lever)
     * You must swing your arms fast
     * Turning body/hips only produces a marginal speed increase
     * For *amateurs*, get the body to respond to the hands and arms (not the other way around)
   - Set up (see driving tip #12 below):
     * Comfortable wide stance (but not too wide)
     * Feet slightly turned outwards
     * Ball inside left heel
     * For amateurs, tee the ball fairly high (for high launch and small draw)
   - During backswing:
     * Move your feet (up and down) before you start your backswing
     * Lift the left heel during backswing
     * Get hands high
     * Stop the backswing *just before* your maximum stretch (and before you lift your body). [Stop/transition in an athletic position]
   - During down swing [see 8m45s - 9m20s]:
     * "Sit" into the left side [i.e. squat]
     * Right foot pushes knee "in" (towards the target)
     * Right side moves down and through
   - Finish:
     * do a full 90° hip turn
     * right shoulder is the closer to the target than left shoulder (if you are flexible enough)
     * most weight on left side
       + most weight on your (flat) left foot
       + some weight on right toes
     * upper body is centered (in terms of left/right of target line) and back (slightly away from the target)
   - Drill 1 - speed:
     * get simple monitor to measure club head speed (without a ball)
     * 20-30 swings once per week
     * swing as fast as you can; "let yourself go"
     * for practice only, he likes to do a short backswing then "rip into it"
     * follow through should always be longer than backswing
     * experiment with short/long swings (to see which gives the fastest speed for you)
   - Drill 2 - jump:
     * do not need to swing at "full pace"
     * jump during impact
     * left side is exploding up
     * right side is staying down, pushing under and through
     * so during jump, right leg goes forward as the left leg goes back (resulting in a twist in the air)
     * the result is a jump and a twist
   - Trivia:
     * Padraig can hit the ball 190mph on a good day
     * [if smash factor of 1.5, this would imply 127mph club head speed]
     * he has carbon fibre VKTRY (pronounced "victory") insoles in his shoes
   - Tom House:
     * [Hitting It Solid - Troy Vayanos | Increase Golf Swing Speed: 8 Ways To Put In On Turbo-Drive | 2015](https://hittingitsolid.com/blog/increase-your-golf-swing-speed)
     * [Golf Digest | Increase Your Swing Speed (gallery of 8 slides) | 2013](https://www.golfdigest.com/gallery/fitness-increase-swing-speed)
     * [Golf Digest - Liz Bergren |Fitness Friday: How to swing the club faster (Part I) | 2013](https://www.golfdigest.com/story/fitness-friday-slow-down-to-sp)
     * [Golf Digest - Liz Bergren |Fitness Friday: How to swing the club faster (Part II) | 2013](https://www.golfdigest.com/story/fitness-friday-how-to-swing-th)
     * [Golf Digest - Liz Bergren |Fitness Friday: How to swing the club faster (Part III) | 2013](https://www.golfdigest.com/story/fitness-friday-how-to-swing-th-1)

1. [Padraig Harrington |[PT. 1] YOU'VE GOT TO GET YOUR WRISTS ACTIVE IN THE SWING | Paddy's Golf Tip #8 (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WxtyPwYs5IE)
   - Principles:
     * 70% of speed comes from wrists; we want "active" wrists 
     * Wrists give face control
   - Grip:
     * Take a good grip ("all in the fingers") with *light pressure*
     * If you feel you have to strangle the club then the grip isn't right
     * You should be able to freely move the club around (in all directions)
   - Drill 1 - speed:
     * Narrow stance (feet virtually together)
     * Active wrists (kind of "flipping")
     * Use a 9 iron?
     * Hit a very firm long chip (perhaps 80 yards)
     * Repeat while getting more aggressive:
       + perhaps 110 yards
       + then longer
       + then as far as you can [150 yards for Padraig; similar length to a full 9 iron]
   - Drill 2 - speed:
     * Use a 9 iron?
     * Line up 5-6 balls in a row (perpendicular to the target line; with 1-2 ball gap between each)
     * Hit (flick) the closest ball
     * Swing back from follow through position all the way to backswing/flick position; at the same time step forward by the distance between the balls
     * Repeat the above 2 steps
   - Drill 3 - learn face control:
     * Use a 9 iron?
     * Alternate 2 exaggerated shots then repeat
     * Use a lot of wrist action for each of the 2 shots
     * First flip under the ball with an open club face to hit a high cut (like in table tennis)
     * Second, flip "over the top" (like a top spin shot in tennis) to hit a low draw
     * Repeat those 2 shots many times

1. [[PT. 2] WRISTS IN THE SWING- THE DETAILS | Paddy's Golf Tip #9 (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TWswmz_XE7c)
   - Normal backswing
   - When starting the down swing, pronate the wrists by around 20°
   - By the time you reach impact, the wrists will be pronated by around 5° (in other words, the wrists are in the process of extending)

1. [Golf: Zephyr Melton | Here are 7 at-home drills from Ryder Cup captain Padraig Harrington | 2020](https://golf.com/news/7-drills-ryder-cup-captain-padraig-harrington/)
   - Chipping drill | Bunker drill | Impact position drill | Clean contact drill |
     Tips for beginners (x2) | Use your arms to drive your body


## Greenside bunker shots

1. [EFFECTIVE PLAY FROM THE BUNKER | Paddy's Golf Tip #7 (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ghjWd8dKB9M)
   - Get your body in the right position
   - Drill to keep weight on lead foot: Hit bunker shot with trail heel off the ground
   - Practice tip: Give yourself a good lie by teeing the ball up on some sand
   - His setup at 2m42s & 3m00s:
     * Ball is slightly behind the lead heel
     * Ball is slightly in front of the sternum
     * Trail arm is vertical
     * Trail wrist is cupped
     * Lead arm points to the trail foot
     * Lead wrist is bowed
   - He wants to encourage a out-to-in (cut) on the downswing:
     * Beware of taking the club back on the outside on the downswing...
     * Instead he says to take the club *back on the inside* and bring it *down from the outside*
   - He says most of the backswing uses arms rather than body rotation
   - Don't open the clubface too much, perhaps 30° (i.e. 1 o'clock)
   - He briefly covers shots from: uphill lies, downhill lies and plugged lies

1. [Golf: Kevin Cunningham | Padraig Harrington reveals the secrets to hitting out of hard and soft sand | 2020](https://golf.com/instruction/bunker-shots/padraig-harrington-bunker-secrets-soft-sand/)
   - [X: Padraig Harrington | How to hit a bunker shot from very soft sand and very hard sand (video) | 2020](https://x.com/padraig_h/status/1253422395873869836)

1. [PLAYING FROM PLUGGED LIES IN BUNKERS | Paddy's Golf Tip #35 (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jJGD7OQB7d0)


## Long game

1. [Padraig Harrington | THE SECRET TO EFFECTIVE DRIVING | Paddy's Golf Tip #12 (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QxjnF_-eKA)
1. [Padraig Harrington | HITTING DRAWS AND FADES | Paddy's Golf Tip #11 (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IEcJIrVtiM0)


## About Padraig Harrington

1. [PGA Tour | Padraig Harrington ACHIEVEMENTS, PROFILE, etc.](https://www.pgatour.com/players/player.20766.padraig-harrington.html)
1. [Wikipedia | Pádraig Harrington](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/P%C3%A1draig_Harrington)
1. [Padraig Harrington's web site](https://padraigharrington.com)
