Links_GolfBall.md, before:

# Golf balls

This is mainly about technical aspects of golf balls, so it covers:

- ball speed, trajectory, spin
- test results, compression, dimple pattern, fitting, etc.

For discussions about compression, please note that as per the Golftripz reference below:

- *Low* compression is  65 and less (i.e. *soft*)
- *Medium/mid* compression is 66 to 89
- *High* compression is 90+ (i.e. *hard*)

1. [MyGolfSpy | 2021 Golf Ball Test Results | 2021](https://mygolfspy.com/buyers-guides/golf-balls/best-golf-balls-2021/)
   - We tested 37 premium balls models

   - Key Findings
     1. Soft is Slow, But …
        * there is an absolute correlation between compression and ball speed but...
        * Among mid to high swing players, those who fall in the high spin category (ballpark 2,800 rpm or more with a driver),
          lower spin can compensate for the speed lost to lower compression.
        * as speed declines, particularly with iron shots, low-compression balls can be a touch faster than firmer ones.
     2. Soft Doesn’t Spin
        * If you’re looking for a bit straighter flight with the driver or to cut spin out of your iron game, soft can work.
          If you’re looking for more spin on approach shots, it won’t.
     3. If It Spins Off The Driver, It Spins Off The Wedge
        * While ball manufacturers often differentiate between driver and iron/wedge spin, the reality is that, if a ball spins
          of a driver, it’s going to spin off irons and full (and even partial) wedge shots, too.
     4. Forget About Launch Angle, Trajectory [i.e. launch angle, height and descent angle] is The Thing
     5. For Many, The Best Answers Are In The Middle
     6. Golf Ball Models Are Significantly Different
        * Our data reveals that... across the entire pool there are significant differences in key metrics like ball speed,
          trajectory (the combination launch angle, height and descent angle) and spin.

   - High Swing Speed Golfers: Observations
     * the Top 10 [Distance Off The Tee] shows a mix of high-, mid- and low-compression offerings
     * At driver speeds, the firmest balls were the fastest
     * At these [iron] speeds, trajectory and spin properties play a more significant role in total distance.
     * As we slow to iron speeds, high-compression balls lose their speed advantage.

   - Mid Swing Speed Golfers: Observations
     * Firmer offerings... achieve distance through longer carry while softer offerings... rely on additional roll (due to lower spin) to maximize distance.
     * The firmest balls are the fastest balls
     * The [mid-iron] distance comes with reduced spin and shallower descent angles, suggesting stopping power could be an issue for some.
     * the fastest balls [mid-iron] are a mix of high- and low-compression models.

   - Slower Swing Speed Golfers: Observations
     * the longest balls for this group were largely above 85 compression.
     * Golfers in this swing speed range often benefit [for driver distance] from higher launch with more spin so
       low-compression balls are not always the best option.
     * Even at relatively slow driver speeds, firmer balls are fast with the majority being above 95 compression.
     * At our lowest [swing] speed, the longest balls [for irons] are almost all low-compression offerings.
     * For slower swing speed players, higher spin on iron shots is often desirable so, while low-compression balls
       can provide more distance, the low-spin properties may not be ideal.

   - WEDGE – 55 Yard Shot: Observations
     * Balls that we would classify as spinny off the driver and irons also produced high spin rates on 55-yard wedge shots.
     * The lowest wedge spin was found among the low-compression offerings.

   - Ball Speed Versus Compression: Observations
     * At all three driver speeds tested, the highest-compression golf balls... produced the fastest ball speeds.
       This suggests slower swing speed golfers are still able to compress the core with a driver.
     * As iron speeds drop into the mid-range of our test, the low-compression balls are faster... the lower-compression
       balls gain speed because of the firmer covers and mantles.
   - “Soft” Ball Recommendations
     * Low compression isn’t for everyone and, frankly, we believe they’re not the best fit for most golfers.
   - Data: interactive chart showing key metrics
   - Reader Asked Questions
     * What’s the right compression for my swing speed?
     * Does handicap matter when choosing a golf ball?
     * How do I find the right golf ball for my game?
     * Do the pros play the same golf ball I buy off the shelf?

1. [MyGolfSpy - Tony Covey | Golf Ball Compression Guide | 2022](https://mygolfspy.com/news-opinion/golf-ball-compression-guide/)
   - The goal is to tackle your compression questions while hopefully clearing up what really is an abundance
     of *golf ball compression misinformation*
   - Golf Ball Compression Chart
   - What is golf ball compression?
     * Golf ball compression is a measure of how much a golf ball deforms under load. The higher the compression, the harder the ball.
   - How does compression impact feel?
     * Typically, higher compression balls like the Titleist Pro V1x, Bridgestone Tour B X, and Callaway Chrome Soft X will feel firmer.
       Lower compression balls like the Callaway Super Soft, Wilson Duo, and Srixon Soft Feel tend to feel softer.
     * Generally speaking, at similar compression, a ball with a urethane cover will feel softer than an ionomer covered ball.
     * manufacturers aren’t always to be trusted in how they describe the feel properties of their golf balls.
   - How does compression affect ball speed?
     * lower compression balls are slower off the driver
   - How does compression impact spin on full shots?
     * There isn’t an absolute correlation between compression and spin, but the nature of low compression golf balls limits how much
       spin can be designed into the ball.
     * spin [is] the result of stacking a soft layer over a hard layer
   - How does compression impact ball flight?
     * A golf ball’s trajectory is driven almost entirely by its dimple pattern... In that respect, compression has no impact on flight.
   - Do soft/low compression balls spin more around the green?
     * no
   - I swing x, what compression golf ball should I play?
     * The idea that there is a right compression for your swing speed is likely the most pervasive myth in the ball fitting world and
       it has almost no basis in fact.
     * At swing speeds as low as 60 MPH you’re compressing the core of the golf ball. The performance risk isn’t from slower swingers
       under compressing the core of a firmer ball, it’s from faster swingers over compressing the core of a softer one.
     * many golfers – especially lower to moderate swing speed golfers – benefit from the higher flight and spin characteristics of the
       [Titleist Pro V1x] ball
     * a significant number of average golfers would benefit from the higher spin properties of the [high compression 95-96] Chrome Soft X

1. [golf.com - Jonathan Wall | Considering a new golf ball? Always start with these clubs when testing | 2020](https://golf.com/gear/golf-balls/golf-ball-testing-wedges-putter-ping-fully-equipped/)
   - pros do a really good job of making sure their ball matches their putter and wedges
   - If it’s 2 or 3 yards difference [with the driver], it really doesn’t matter
   - You hit your wedges and putters to make the Tour

1. [Titleist | Golf Ball Fitting: Find the Best Golf Ball | c.2020](https://www.titleist.com.my/fitting/golf-ball-fitting)

1. hititlonger.com - Steve Pratt
   - [Golf Ball Myths BUSTED! (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uLVE2UEEfFU)
     1. *Myth: Modern golf balls are faster/hotter than older golf balls.* No, many modern golf balls have less spin off
        the driver than older golf balls, hence more distance
     2. *Myth: All premium golf balls are about the same.* No, there is up to 39 yards difference in total (i.e. carry
        plus roll-out) driver distance between shortest and longest [of those tested]
        * Higher compression balls typically carry further
        * Higher compression balls typically spin more around the green
        * Your *soft feel* golf ball is killing your game
        * [I think he may be mistaken that higher compression balls roll-out further on drives. I understand that higher compression
          balls can have more spin on drives (for high swing speed, high spin golfers) which can reduce the carry and roll-out.]
     3. *Myth: All premium golf balls are equally straight and consistent.* More expensive golf balls typically go straighter,
        have "tighter" dispersion (left-right and length) and are more consistent
   - [Top 5 Best GOLF BALLS! (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qc9PdnKdhx4)
   - [The Top 5 Golf Balls You Should AVOID AT ALL COSTS! (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0YK5r13diiU)
   - [The BEST Golf Balls for Your Game and Budget! (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xofvtD9ZhOs)

1. [Today's Golfer; Simon Daddow | ROBOT TESTED: Which golf ball suits me? | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6CchRvPRfiQ)
   - 23m36s: Conclusions
     * Top performer, £50/dozen budget: TaylorMade TP5x
     * Club golfer: Callaway ERC Soft
     * Mail-order: Snell MTB-X
     * Two-piece/budget balls: Srixon AD333
     * Top performer: Titleist Pro V1x
   - 32m10s: What we learned
     * All X-style balls look good on spreadsheets; You should *only* pick a softer ball based on feel
     * Golf balls are not as accurate as we thought
     * Two-piece golf balls can spin
     * Soft is slow, but slow isn't necessarily short
     * How much [money] is too much [to pay]
     * More [driver swing] speed equals bigger misses; if your swing speed is 115mph and you pick the wrong golf ball, you will see some big misses
1. [Today's Golfer; Simon Daddow | ROBOT GOLF BALLS TEST | Find the best 2023 model for your game! | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dWCEJr0tKQ4)
   - Use the timestamps to pick which parts of this 54 minute video you want to watch

1. [Golftripz; Tamos Shanter | Golf Ball Compression Chart That Tells a Lot about Your Skills | 2021](https://www.golftripz.com/blog/golf-ball-compression-chart-that-tells-a-lot-about-your-skills/)
   - Low compression: 65 and less
   - Medium-compression: 66 to 89
   - High compression: 90+
   - Golf Ball Compression Chart: compression ratings of different golf ball brands and models

Commit message:

Added a link to 2023 Golf Ball Test

Links_GolfBall.md, after:

# Golf balls

This is mainly about technical aspects of golf balls, so it covers:

- ball speed, trajectory, spin
- test results, compression, dimple pattern, fitting, etc.

For discussions about compression, please note that as per the Golftripz reference below:

- *Low* compression is  65 and less (i.e. *soft*)
- *Medium/mid* compression is 66 to 89
- *High* compression is 90+ (i.e. *hard*)

1. [MyGolfSpy | 2023 Golf Ball Test | 2023](https://mygolfspy.com/buyers-guides/golf-balls/2023-golf-ball-test/)
   - I haven't summarised this latest one ☹️
   - 46 golf ball models tested
   - The balls tested include retail urethane offerings from major manufacturers and a mix of smaller direct-to-consumer (DTC)
     and house brands. We also tested a small number of popular two-piece ionomer offerings.

1. [MyGolfSpy | 2021 Golf Ball Test Results | 2021](https://mygolfspy.com/buyers-guides/golf-balls/best-golf-balls-2021/)
   - We tested 37 premium balls models

   - Key Findings
     1. Soft is Slow, But …
        * there is an absolute correlation between compression and ball speed but...
        * Among mid to high swing players, those who fall in the high spin category (ballpark 2,800 rpm or more with a driver),
          lower spin can compensate for the speed lost to lower compression.
        * as speed declines, particularly with iron shots, low-compression balls can be a touch faster than firmer ones.
     2. Soft Doesn’t Spin
        * If you’re looking for a bit straighter flight with the driver or to cut spin out of your iron game, soft can work.
          If you’re looking for more spin on approach shots, it won’t.
     3. If It Spins Off The Driver, It Spins Off The Wedge
        * While ball manufacturers often differentiate between driver and iron/wedge spin, the reality is that, if a ball spins
          [off] a driver, it’s going to spin off irons and full (and even partial) wedge shots, too.
     4. Forget About Launch Angle, Trajectory [i.e. launch angle, height and descent angle] is The Thing
     5. For Many, The Best Answers Are In The Middle
     6. Golf Ball Models Are Significantly Different
        * Our data reveals that... across the entire pool there are significant differences in key metrics like ball speed,
          trajectory (the combination launch angle, height and descent angle) and spin.

   - High Swing Speed Golfers: Observations
     * the Top 10 [Distance Off The Tee] shows a mix of high-, mid- and low-compression offerings
     * At driver speeds, the firmest balls were the fastest
     * At these [iron] speeds, trajectory and spin properties play a more significant role in total distance.
     * As we slow to iron speeds, high-compression balls lose their speed advantage.

   - Mid Swing Speed Golfers: Observations
     * Firmer offerings... achieve distance through longer carry while softer offerings... rely on additional roll (due to lower spin) to maximize distance.
     * The firmest balls are the fastest balls
     * The [mid-iron] distance comes with reduced spin and shallower descent angles, suggesting stopping power could be an issue for some.
     * the fastest balls [mid-iron] are a mix of high- and low-compression models.

   - Slower Swing Speed Golfers: Observations
     * the longest balls for this group were largely above 85 compression.
     * Golfers in this swing speed range often benefit [for driver distance] from higher launch with more spin so
       low-compression balls are not always the best option.
     * Even at relatively slow driver speeds, firmer balls are fast with the majority being above 95 compression.
     * At our lowest [swing] speed, the longest balls [for irons] are almost all low-compression offerings.
     * For slower swing speed players, higher spin on iron shots is often desirable so, while low-compression balls
       can provide more distance, the low-spin properties may not be ideal.

   - WEDGE – 55 Yard Shot: Observations
     * Balls that we would classify as spinny off the driver and irons also produced high spin rates on 55-yard wedge shots.
     * The lowest wedge spin was found among the low-compression offerings.

   - Ball Speed Versus Compression: Observations
     * At all three driver speeds tested, the highest-compression golf balls... produced the fastest ball speeds.
       This suggests slower swing speed golfers are still able to compress the core with a driver.
     * As iron speeds drop into the mid-range of our test, the low-compression balls are faster... the lower-compression
       balls gain speed because of the firmer covers and mantles.
   - “Soft” Ball Recommendations
     * Low compression isn’t for everyone and, frankly, we believe they’re not the best fit for most golfers.
   - Data: interactive chart showing key metrics
   - Reader Asked Questions
     * What’s the right compression for my swing speed?
     * Does handicap matter when choosing a golf ball?
     * How do I find the right golf ball for my game?
     * Do the pros play the same golf ball I buy off the shelf?

1. [MyGolfSpy - Tony Covey | Golf Ball Compression Guide | 2022](https://mygolfspy.com/news-opinion/golf-ball-compression-guide/)
   - The goal is to tackle your compression questions while hopefully clearing up what really is an abundance
     of *golf ball compression misinformation*
   - Golf Ball Compression Chart
   - What is golf ball compression?
     * Golf ball compression is a measure of how much a golf ball deforms under load. The higher the compression, the harder the ball.
   - How does compression impact feel?
     * Typically, higher compression balls like the Titleist Pro V1x, Bridgestone Tour B X, and Callaway Chrome Soft X will feel firmer.
       Lower compression balls like the Callaway Super Soft, Wilson Duo, and Srixon Soft Feel tend to feel softer.
     * Generally speaking, at similar compression, a ball with a urethane cover will feel softer than an ionomer covered ball.
     * manufacturers aren’t always to be trusted in how they describe the feel properties of their golf balls.
   - How does compression affect ball speed?
     * lower compression balls are slower off the driver
   - How does compression impact spin on full shots?
     * There isn’t an absolute correlation between compression and spin, but the nature of low compression golf balls limits how much
       spin can be designed into the ball.
     * spin [is] the result of stacking a soft layer over a hard layer
   - How does compression impact ball flight?
     * A golf ball’s trajectory is driven almost entirely by its dimple pattern... In that respect, compression has no impact on flight.
   - Do soft/low compression balls spin more around the green?
     * no
   - I swing x, what compression golf ball should I play?
     * The idea that there is a right compression for your swing speed is likely the most pervasive myth in the ball fitting world and
       it has almost no basis in fact.
     * At swing speeds as low as 60 MPH you’re compressing the core of the golf ball. The performance risk isn’t from slower swingers
       under compressing the core of a firmer ball, it’s from faster swingers over compressing the core of a softer one.
     * many golfers – especially lower to moderate swing speed golfers – benefit from the higher flight and spin characteristics of the
       [Titleist Pro V1x] ball
     * a significant number of average golfers would benefit from the higher spin properties of the [high compression 95-96] Chrome Soft X

1. [golf.com - Jonathan Wall | Considering a new golf ball? Always start with these clubs when testing | 2020](https://golf.com/gear/golf-balls/golf-ball-testing-wedges-putter-ping-fully-equipped/)
   - pros do a really good job of making sure their ball matches their putter and wedges
   - If it’s 2 or 3 yards difference [with the driver], it really doesn’t matter
   - You hit your wedges and putters to make the Tour

1. [Titleist | Golf Ball Fitting: Find the Best Golf Ball | c.2020](https://www.titleist.com.my/fitting/golf-ball-fitting)

1. hititlonger.com - Steve Pratt
   - [Golf Ball Myths BUSTED! (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uLVE2UEEfFU)
     1. *Myth: Modern golf balls are faster/hotter than older golf balls.* No, many modern golf balls have less spin off
        the driver than older golf balls, hence more distance
     2. *Myth: All premium golf balls are about the same.* No, there is up to 39 yards difference in total (i.e. carry
        plus roll-out) driver distance between shortest and longest [of those tested]
        * Higher compression balls typically carry further
        * Higher compression balls typically spin more around the green
        * Your *soft feel* golf ball is killing your game
        * [I think he may be mistaken that higher compression balls roll-out further on drives. I understand that higher compression
          balls can have more spin on drives (for high swing speed, high spin golfers) which can reduce the carry and roll-out.]
     3. *Myth: All premium golf balls are equally straight and consistent.* More expensive golf balls typically go straighter,
        have "tighter" dispersion (left-right and length) and are more consistent
   - [Top 5 Best GOLF BALLS! (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qc9PdnKdhx4)
   - [The Top 5 Golf Balls You Should AVOID AT ALL COSTS! (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0YK5r13diiU)
   - [The BEST Golf Balls for Your Game and Budget! (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xofvtD9ZhOs)

1. [Today's Golfer; Simon Daddow | ROBOT TESTED: Which golf ball suits me? | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6CchRvPRfiQ)
   - 23m36s: Conclusions
     * Top performer, £50/dozen budget: TaylorMade TP5x
     * Club golfer: Callaway ERC Soft
     * Mail-order: Snell MTB-X
     * Two-piece/budget balls: Srixon AD333
     * Top performer: Titleist Pro V1x
   - 32m10s: What we learned
     * All X-style balls look good on spreadsheets; You should *only* pick a softer ball based on feel
     * Golf balls are not as accurate as we thought
     * Two-piece golf balls can spin
     * Soft is slow, but slow isn't necessarily short
     * How much [money] is too much [to pay]
     * More [driver swing] speed equals bigger misses; if your swing speed is 115mph and you pick the wrong golf ball, you will see some big misses
1. [Today's Golfer; Simon Daddow | ROBOT GOLF BALLS TEST | Find the best 2023 model for your game! | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dWCEJr0tKQ4)
   - Use the timestamps to pick which parts of this 54 minute video you want to watch

1. [Golftripz; Tamos Shanter | Golf Ball Compression Chart That Tells a Lot about Your Skills | 2021](https://www.golftripz.com/blog/golf-ball-compression-chart-that-tells-a-lot-about-your-skills/)
   - Low compression: 65 and less
   - Medium-compression: 66 to 89
   - High compression: 90+
   - Golf Ball Compression Chart: compression ratings of different golf ball brands and models
