Links_SwingBalance.md, before:

# Golf swing: balance

1. [ChrisRyanGolf | 3 TIPS TO HELP YOU SWING IN BALANCE (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SQWc2XlMhFk)
   1. Setup in good balance (7 iron example):
      - Weight in the middle of the feet (slightly favouring the balls of the feet):
        * meaning a vertical line passing through the back of shoulder should pass:
          + just in front of the knees
          + at the toe-end of shoe laces or start of toes
        * also meaning a vertical line passing through the pelvis should land a few inches behind the heels
   1. Swing shape should be good
      - consider using the *corridor drill*
   1. Awareness drill: Swing with an alignment stick under the arches/middle of both feet
      - feel the weight on heels and balls of feet
      - feel the weight shift to right foot during backswing and left foot during downswing
      - consider doing this drill with bare feet
      - consider hitting balls using this drill
      - check point at the end of the swing:
        * nearly all the weight on your left side
        * should feel in balance (on neither heel nor toe)

1. [Danford Golf | GOLF LESSON: HEEL / TOE WEIGHT SHIFT IN THE GOLF SWING (video) | Danford Golf | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q6kY0INe04E)
   - During the backswing:
     * weight shifts to the [inside] right heel
       + the right foot stays planted
       + the right knee cap stays straight
   - During the downswing:
     * _at the start_ the weight shifts to the left foot
     * then [as you turn and reach impact] the pressure moves to the ball of the left foot
   - After impact and finish:
     * weight shifts to the [outside] left heel

1. [Kerrod Gray Golf & Craig Hocknull | Staying Balanced in the Golf Swing | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5mq1NPnSepI)
   - At the top of your backswing, the weight on your left foot should be under your ankle bone on the inside
   - At the top of your backswing check your balance by doing heel taps, toe taps and bounce up and down
   - Try the same tapping/bouncing at the address position
   - Drill for balance:
     * 5 iron
     * Hit a punch shot about 60 yards
     * Half swing
     * Head still
     * Feet *still*; there are still pressure shifts and [rotational/twisting?] movements
   - Don't push off with your toes during the downswing and follow through
   - At impact and post-impact, the heels should remain on the ground
   - Tony Finau keeps his toes in the air from impact until arms are about horizontal in the follow through

1. [Smash Factor Golf - Natalie Adams | Why do i FALL OFF BALANCE after my golf shots?? (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9Jm_StfwsIM)
   - Setup in good balance (iron example):
     * pretty balanced between heels and balls of feet (slightly favouring balls of feet)
     * for irons: 55% of weight of left foot at address
     * for driver: 55-60% of weight of right foot at address
   - During the backswing:
     * weight shifts to the right heel and left toe [ball of foot]
     * 80% of pressure on the right foot
   - During the downswing/follow through:
     * for the right foot: weight shifts from heel to toe [ball of foot]
     * for the left foot: weight shifts from toe [ball of foot] to heel
     * 80% of pressure on the left foot 
     * finish in balance
   - If you fall forward during your swing, you probably have too much weight in your right toe at the top of the backswing
   - If you fall backwards during your swing, you probably have too much weight in your heels during the swing
   - Do not shift your weight (left or right) by laterally moving the head; it is more of a rotational movement
   - Drill:
     * Make easy/gentle swings with feet together
     * Hit balls using the same technique

## Drills

1. [Peter Knight Golf | Golf swing balance drills (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ItJXjWLQw5Y)
   - Drill 1: Pressure-board/seesaw drill:
     * Use a rectangular panel of wood with a strip of timber across the center.
     * The strip of wood lies on the ground so the arrangement behaves like a seesaw.
     * Take your golf stance with your feet equally distant from the center strip, hence fairly balanced between left and right.
     * During the backswing (for a right handed player) the weight should shift to the right side (seesaw tilts right).
     * At the very start of the downswing [in fact many say at the end of your backswing] the weight should shift to the left side
       (seesaw tilts left).
   - Drill 2: Step drill:
     * Take steps while doing 3 half swings as follows:
       + Swing 1: Backswing and lift left foot off the ground
       + Swing 1: Forwardswing and lift right foot off the ground
       + Swing 2: Repeat as per swing 1
       + Swing 3: Repeat as per swing 1 but also step towards the ball during the backswing
         and hit the ball during the forwardswing
     * [Although this drill targets left-right balance, I feel the *repetitive action helps avoid falling forward/backward*]

1. [Scratch Golf Academy - Adam Bazalgette | Golf Swing Drills to Fix Balance (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1oHC72vpI5w)
   - Drill 1: Easier one leg drill:
     * Ball is a little right the front/left foot
     * Balance on the lead/left leg (95% of your weight)
     * Right foot is back with toe touching the ground (5% of your weight)
     * Do quarter / half / three-quarter swings and hit the ball
     * See how big a swing you can achieve while still maintaining your balance
   - Drill 2: More difficult one leg drill. As above but:
     * Ball directly in front of your front/left foot
     * Thighs touching will make this a little easier
     * Right leg is positioned similarly, but toe is slightly off the ground
     * Consider teeing up the ball
   - Requires good rhythm / smooth flowing swing
   - [Michael Breed | At-Home Drill to Stop Falling Out of Your Shots! (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sHvllSGNe4w); as per drill 1 but:
     * with a little more detail
     * hold the finish in balance

1. [TaylorMade Golf - Rick Sessinghaus | Three Balance Drills for Better Ball Striking (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1fP7Ub-jz3o)
   - Drill 1: Swing and hit with feet together
   - Drill 2: Swing and hit with feet flat on the ground the whole time
     [i.e. no lifting the heels or rolling the left foot towards the target]
   - Drill 3: Normal full swing and hit, but hold your finish position
     until the ball lands

1. Other balance drills:
   - Swing with eyes closed:
     * I'm less keen on trying to hit the ball with eyes closed as recommened by some
     * beware you don't hit a person or ball, etc. unintentionally
   - Drills which help to [avoid shanking irons](Links_ShankingIrons.md):
     * Drill: Lift the toes of both feet during your swing
     * Close eyes and feel equal weight between toes and heel

1. [Golfweek - Brian Hill | How to Achieve a Good Golf Swing Balance](https://golftips.golfweek.usatoday.com/achieve-good-golf-swing-balance-20351.html)
   - Make sure your stance is wide enough
   - Don't let your weight slide outside the right foot during the backswing
   - Maximize swing arc while not overswinging
     * make a full shoulder turn
     * do not lose your balance
     * your left heel should not come off the ground more than an inch
     * don't bend your left arm trying to lengthen your swing
     * don't strain to swing back so far that you move your head or let your torso tilt toward the target
   - Achieve a balanced follow-through

1. [GolfTEC Scramble - Andrew Dodson | GolfTEC’s Andrew Dodson shows how to maintain balance in your golf swing | 2016](https://scramble.golftec.com/blog/2016/07/golf-drills-for-balance-in-your-golf-swing/)
   - Drill 1: Coin Drill:
     * Place a coin under the inside “pad” [ball] of your trail foot
     * The goal is to maintain pressure on the coin throughout the swing
       and so avoid too much sway in the backswing
     * Use your lower body to start the downswing sequence
   - Drill 2: Barefoot swings:
     * Make controlled swings barefoot with a mid iron
     * As you work your way to swinging to full speed, you should feel your feet grip the ground
     * After you find your ideal pace, put your shoes back on and replicate that same feeling

Commit message:

Add link re swing balance

Links_SwingBalance.md, after:

# Golf swing: balance

1. [ChrisRyanGolf | 3 TIPS TO HELP YOU SWING IN BALANCE (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SQWc2XlMhFk)
   1. Setup in good balance (7 iron example):
      - Weight in the middle of the feet (slightly favouring the balls of the feet):
        * meaning a vertical line passing through the back of shoulder should pass:
          + just in front of the knees
          + at the toe-end of shoe laces or start of toes
        * also meaning a vertical line passing through the pelvis should land a few inches behind the heels
   1. Swing shape should be good
      - consider using the *corridor drill*
   1. Awareness drill: Swing with an alignment stick under the arches/middle of both feet
      - feel the weight on heels and balls of feet
      - feel the weight shift to right foot during backswing and left foot during downswing
      - consider doing this drill with bare feet
      - consider hitting balls using this drill
      - check point at the end of the swing:
        * nearly all the weight on your left side
        * should feel in balance (on neither heel nor toe)

1. [Danford Golf | GOLF LESSON: HEEL / TOE WEIGHT SHIFT IN THE GOLF SWING (video) | Danford Golf | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q6kY0INe04E)
   - During the backswing:
     * weight shifts to the [inside] right heel
       + the right foot stays planted
       + the right knee cap stays straight
   - During the downswing:
     * _at the start_ the weight shifts to the left foot
     * then [as you turn and reach impact] the pressure moves to the ball of the left foot
   - After impact and finish:
     * weight shifts to the [outside] left heel

1. [Kerrod Gray Golf & Craig Hocknull | Staying Balanced in the Golf Swing | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5mq1NPnSepI)
   - At the top of your backswing, the weight on your left foot should be under your ankle bone on the inside
   - At the top of your backswing check your balance by doing heel taps, toe taps and bounce up and down
   - Try the same tapping/bouncing at the address position
   - Drill for balance:
     * 5 iron
     * Hit a punch shot about 60 yards
     * Half swing
     * Head still
     * Feet *still*; there are still pressure shifts and [rotational/twisting?] movements
   - Don't push off with your toes during the downswing and follow through
   - At impact and post-impact, the heels should remain on the ground
   - Tony Finau keeps his toes in the air from impact until arms are about horizontal in the follow through

1. [Smash Factor Golf - Natalie Adams | Why do i FALL OFF BALANCE after my golf shots?? (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9Jm_StfwsIM)
   - Setup in good balance (iron example):
     * pretty balanced between heels and balls of feet (slightly favouring balls of feet)
     * for irons: 55% of weight of left foot at address
     * for driver: 55-60% of weight of right foot at address
   - During the backswing:
     * weight shifts to the right heel and left toe [ball of foot]
     * 80% of pressure on the right foot
   - During the downswing/follow through:
     * for the right foot: weight shifts from heel to toe [ball of foot]
     * for the left foot: weight shifts from toe [ball of foot] to heel
     * 80% of pressure on the left foot 
     * finish in balance
   - If you fall forward during your swing, you probably have too much weight in your right toe at the top of the backswing
   - If you fall backwards during your swing, you probably have too much weight in your heels during the swing
   - Do not shift your weight (left or right) by laterally moving the head; it is more of a rotational movement
   - Drill:
     * Make easy/gentle swings with feet together
     * Hit balls using the same technique

## Drills

1. [Peter Knight Golf | Golf swing balance drills (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ItJXjWLQw5Y)
   - Drill 1: Pressure-board/seesaw drill:
     * Use a rectangular panel of wood with a strip of timber across the center.
     * The strip of wood lies on the ground so the arrangement behaves like a seesaw.
     * Take your golf stance with your feet equally distant from the center strip, hence fairly balanced between left and right.
     * During the backswing (for a right handed player) the weight should shift to the right side (seesaw tilts right).
     * At the very start of the downswing [in fact many say at the end of your backswing] the weight should shift to the left side
       (seesaw tilts left).
   - Drill 2: Step drill:
     * Take steps while doing 3 half swings as follows:
       + Swing 1: Backswing and lift left foot off the ground
       + Swing 1: Forwardswing and lift right foot off the ground
       + Swing 2: Repeat as per swing 1
       + Swing 3: Repeat as per swing 1 but also step towards the ball during the backswing
         and hit the ball during the forwardswing
     * [Although this drill targets left-right balance, I feel the *repetitive action helps avoid falling forward/backward*]

1. [Scratch Golf Academy - Adam Bazalgette | Golf Swing Drills to Fix Balance (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1oHC72vpI5w)
   - Drill 1: Easier one leg drill:
     * Ball is a little right the front/left foot
     * Balance on the lead/left leg (95% of your weight)
     * Right foot is back with toe touching the ground (5% of your weight)
     * Do quarter / half / three-quarter swings and hit the ball
     * See how big a swing you can achieve while still maintaining your balance
   - Drill 2: More difficult one leg drill. As above but:
     * Ball directly in front of your front/left foot
     * Thighs touching will make this a little easier
     * Right leg is positioned similarly, but toe is slightly off the ground
     * Consider teeing up the ball
   - Requires good rhythm / smooth flowing swing
   - [Michael Breed | At-Home Drill to Stop Falling Out of Your Shots! (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sHvllSGNe4w); as per drill 1 but:
     * with a little more detail
     * hold the finish in balance

1. [Shawn Clement's Wisdom in Golf Lessons | WHY YOU STRUGGLE WITH BALANCE IN YOUR GOLF SWING: 3 BULLET PROOF TECHNIQUES FOR YOU | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hHmqYO8XsXU)
   - [03m42s] Drill 1: Swinging into your finish
   - [11m27s] Drill 2: The walking Drill
   - [13m32s] Drill 3: The Two Swing Drill [I like this because you can do it during your game!]

1. [TaylorMade Golf - Rick Sessinghaus | Three Balance Drills for Better Ball Striking (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1fP7Ub-jz3o)
   - Drill 1: Swing and hit with feet together
   - Drill 2: Swing and hit with feet flat on the ground the whole time
     [i.e. no lifting the heels or rolling the left foot towards the target]
   - Drill 3: Normal full swing and hit, but hold your finish position
     until the ball lands

1. Other balance drills:
   - Swing with eyes closed:
     * I'm less keen on trying to hit the ball with eyes closed as recommened by some
     * beware you don't hit a person or ball, etc. unintentionally
   - Drills which help to [avoid shanking irons](Links_ShankingIrons.md):
     * Drill: Lift the toes of both feet during your swing
     * Close eyes and feel equal weight between toes and heel

1. [Golfweek - Brian Hill | How to Achieve a Good Golf Swing Balance](https://golftips.golfweek.usatoday.com/achieve-good-golf-swing-balance-20351.html)
   - Make sure your stance is wide enough
   - Don't let your weight slide outside the right foot during the backswing
   - Maximize swing arc while not overswinging
     * make a full shoulder turn
     * do not lose your balance
     * your left heel should not come off the ground more than an inch
     * don't bend your left arm trying to lengthen your swing
     * don't strain to swing back so far that you move your head or let your torso tilt toward the target
   - Achieve a balanced follow-through

1. [GolfTEC Scramble - Andrew Dodson | GolfTEC’s Andrew Dodson shows how to maintain balance in your golf swing | 2016](https://scramble.golftec.com/blog/2016/07/golf-drills-for-balance-in-your-golf-swing/)
   - Drill 1: Coin Drill:
     * Place a coin under the inside “pad” [ball] of your trail foot
     * The goal is to maintain pressure on the coin throughout the swing
       and so avoid too much sway in the backswing
     * Use your lower body to start the downswing sequence
   - Drill 2: Barefoot swings:
     * Make controlled swings barefoot with a mid iron
     * As you work your way to swinging to full speed, you should feel your feet grip the ground
     * After you find your ideal pace, put your shoes back on and replicate that same feeling
