Links_DrKwonSwing.md, before:

# Dr Kwon swing

Using biomechanics to create a flowing swing.

1. [Be Better Golf | “Stage 1” If you play Golf DO THIS DRILL to start. Golf Scientist Dr Kwon on Be Better Golf (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?app=desktop&v=CvCMCeP2NXk)
   - Step drill

1. [Be Better Golf |  “STAGE X” Swing drill with Dr Kwon. To fix takeaway and start your GOLF swing CORRECTLY (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?app=desktop&v=jczhLVCo8Fo)
   - Swing drill
   - I have noticed that this repetition has vastly **improved my balance** during my swing!

1. [Be Better Golf | THESE STEP DRILLS ARE THE CUTTING EDGE OF GOLF INSTRUCTION (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?app=desktop&v=Q3vv5xGQeFk)
   - Lead stepper
   - Club rock forward
   - Stepping tic-tock
   - Horizontal loaded swings / Horizontal chop
   - Two step
   - [Be Better Golf |  THESE STEP DRILLS ARE THE CUTTING EDGE OF GOLF INSTRUCTION | 2021](https://www.bebettergolf.net/home/these-step-drills-are-the-cutting-edge-of-golf-instruction) - snapshots of the 5 drills above
   - [Be Better Golf | THE PERFECT GOLF SWING DRILL progression. From Dr. Kwon (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tqt1L8TriN0) - very short version

1. [Be Better Golf | Milo Lines, PGA: METHOD TO FIND YOUR SWING. BE Better GOLF! (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ke7af8KxAjs)
   - Similar to Dr Kwon
   - Most professional golfers have up-tempo swings
   - Step drill
   - Convert step drill into real swing
   - Drill: Add towel [or club head cover] to make club head heavier

1. [Be Better Golf | THE DOWN AND AROUND MOVE! Milo Lines: "MY KEYS to BE BETTER" (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FXjm3nvyylU)
   - Similar to Dr Kwon
   - Right shoulder does backstoke (not freestyle)
   - Spine moves to produce backswing/downswing. Spine angle is not constant.
   - What powers the swing? "**Left side of body** moving down and around" [together]
   - Build pattern first: Club stays out and away; body turns.
   - Then step drills

Commit message:

Add more links re Dr Kwon swing

Links_DrKwonSwing.md, after:

# Dr Kwon swing

Using biomechanics to create a flowing swing.

1. [Be Better Golf | DR. KWON on BBG (playlist) | 2021-2022](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLK1sbUjAAin6M-ZGiShgaQEMH9ROC7VhA)

1. [Be Better Golf | “Stage 1” If you play Golf DO THIS DRILL to start. Golf Scientist Dr Kwon on Be Better Golf (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?app=desktop&v=CvCMCeP2NXk)
   - Stage 1: Two-step drill

1. [Be Better Golf | "Stage 2" HIPS LIKE THIS in the GOLF SWING | Dr. Kwon on Be Better Golf (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V0_MmhSdlM8)
   - Stage 2: One-step drill

1. [Be Better Golf | "30 Yards More is normal" Dr. KWON Stage 3 and ON COURSE routine for golf Be Better Golf (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rV6ULF9VPg8)
   - Stage 3: Zero-steps; on-course routine
   - Count 1-2-3 to feel your tempo/rhythm

1. [Be Better Golf |  “STAGE X” Swing drill with Dr Kwon. To fix takeaway and start your GOLF swing CORRECTLY (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?app=desktop&v=jczhLVCo8Fo)
   - Swing drill
   - I have noticed that this repetition has vastly **improved my balance** during my swing!

1. [Be Better Golf | THESE STEP DRILLS ARE THE CUTTING EDGE OF GOLF INSTRUCTION (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?app=desktop&v=Q3vv5xGQeFk)
   - Lead stepper
   - Club rock forward
   - Stepping tic-tock
   - Horizontal loaded swings / Horizontal chop
   - Two step
   - [Be Better Golf |  THESE STEP DRILLS ARE THE CUTTING EDGE OF GOLF INSTRUCTION | 2021](https://www.bebettergolf.net/home/these-step-drills-are-the-cutting-edge-of-golf-instruction) - snapshots of the 5 drills above
   - [Be Better Golf | THE PERFECT GOLF SWING DRILL progression. From Dr. Kwon (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tqt1L8TriN0) - very short version

1. [Be Better Golf | Milo Lines, PGA: METHOD TO FIND YOUR SWING. BE Better GOLF! (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ke7af8KxAjs)
   - Similar to Dr Kwon
   - Most professional golfers have up-tempo swings
   - Step drill
   - Convert step drill into real swing
   - Drill: Add towel [or club head cover] to make club head heavier

1. [Be Better Golf | THE DOWN AND AROUND MOVE! Milo Lines: "MY KEYS to BE BETTER" (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FXjm3nvyylU)
   - Similar to Dr Kwon
   - Right shoulder does backstoke (not freestyle)
   - Spine moves to produce backswing/downswing. Spine angle is not constant.
   - What powers the swing? "**Left side of body** moving down and around" [together]
   - Build pattern first: Club stays out and away; body turns.
   - Then step drills
