Links_Putting.md, before:

# Putting

## Aimee Cho

1. [Aimee Cho | Perfect Putting Starts Here!! (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xfz9mTZntHc&list=PL0uaI4r3925QcWIyXqdegaBR8ulbBjgfb&index=14)

   - Basic putting - lesson summary
     * Stance: Inside shoulder width
     * Ball position: below left (lead) eye
     * Grip in palms
     * Bow lead wrist
     * Elbows rotate inward (but not touching body). Pinch your armpits.
     * Use core (abs) to rock shoulders
     * Stroke size 1:1
   - [Aimee Cho | Basics to Clutch Putting (video) | 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7bfo5sA4h8E&list=PL0uaI4r3925QcWIyXqdegaBR8ulbBjgfb&index=1)
     Putting, lesson 1
   - [Aimee Cho | Putting Made Simple (video) | 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BVlokgkTzIs&list=PL0uaI4r3925QcWIyXqdegaBR8ulbBjgfb&index=2)
     Putting, lesson 2

1. [Aimee Cho | Master Short Putts (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rhp62H0mKbU&list=PL0uaI4r3925QcWIyXqdegaBR8ulbBjgfb&index=3)

   - Putting, lesson 3
   - Choose your speed first; then choose your break/line according to the speed you've decided on.
   - [3m33s] Speed control drill; outdoors with hole cup
   - [4m41s] Speed control drill; indoors with coin
   - [Aimee Cho | Best Putting Tip of Your Life (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sKRgzhBfKzo&list=PL0uaI4r3925QcWIyXqdegaBR8ulbBjgfb&index=10) Focus on first 3 inches


## Aussie Golf Pros

* Long putts - equal backswing/followthrough:
  [Aussie Golf Pros (Glen Haynes) | Myth No.4 - Accelerate Through Putts (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wSWC3_xv8Vc)
* Reading greens: [Aussie Golf Pros (Glen Haynes) | Complete Guide To Green Reading (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=06bT7LGEh90)
* Reading greens: [Aussie Golf Pros (Glen Haynes) | Putting - Green Reading (Why You Miss On The Low Side - Amateur Miss) (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W9C-8H2dIA4)
* Distance control drill/game: [Glen Haynes | Putting Game for Perfect Pace | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TrKgEFB2HEI)
* Short putt drill/game: [The Best Putting Drill - Clockface (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VGMUaBdZE84)


## Golf Sidekick

[Golf Sidekick & Michele Low | How I Changed My Putting Stroke Grip - My First Ever Putting Lesson Michele Low | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CoVrDVPM0wM)

- Have a correct and consistent setup:
  * Grip more along the *life line* which promotes:
    + less wristy putts [hence more repeatable speed]
    + elbows tucking into body [hence more repeatable line]
  * Grip loosely; just enough to support the putter
  * Stance about shoulder width
  * Ball under the left eye which promotes striking the ball while putter head is moving up
  * Eyes slightly inside the line of the ball-to-target line (if you stand too far from the
    ball the putter head moves on more of an arc (viewed from above) during the stroke)
  * Hands should be over the ball (viewed from the front). [In other words, you have a *tiny* forward shaft lean.]
- Rock your shoulders; do not allow the body to move forward during the stoke
- You need to consistently hit the middle of the club face
  * Drill:
    + Add a rubber band on each side of the (putter head) sweet spot
    + When you practice putting, you will feel when you miss the sweet spot
- You need good rhythm [i.e. sequence of movement] and tempo [i.e. speed]
- Preshot routine the same (and so same duration) for 3 foot and 30 foot putts; the preshot routine starts after you have decided on your line
- Use a ball with an alignment mark
- For long putts: Consider feeling what speed to hit the putt in advance by:
  * taking your setup (but away from the ball)
  * looking at the hole
  * practice the speed of your stroke [since for long putts, speed is more important than line]
- *Matt's* takeaways from the lesson:
  * Wider stance.
  * Ball under my left eye.
  * Hands over the ball (not ahead or behind).
  * Line on the ball removes one variable - alignment.
  * Longer backstroke and less jab.
  * Let the putter head release.
  * Consistent strike and preshot routine are key.
  * Stand closer to the ball.


## The Golf Sensei - Ed Schwent

1. [This Short Game Clinic Will Change Your Life | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8GFfzVj8_H4)
   - This is a very long video, 1h38m, so I've shown 4 blocks of time in the notes below.
   - *0-25m*
   - **Practice 15 yard & 30 yard shots**
     * Use a lofted club and be more aggressive (from 15 & 30 yards)
     * Use forward shaft lean
     * Clock face concept (e.g. 9 o'clock to 3 o'clock) is only a guide; don't think too much about where to stop on backswing
     * Backswing and follow through distance should be fairly symmetrical
     * Don't try to force backspin (or lack of backspin)
   - *25-50m*
   - Chip: Runs more than carry
     * Back in stance
     * Hands forward
     * Low point in front of the ball (like a full swing iron shot)
   - Pitch: Carry more than run
     * Low point under the ball
   - Chipping/pitching drill:
     * Put an alignment stick a few inches behind the ball
     * Brush the grass, but...
     * Make sure you don't hit the stick on the down swing
   - Putting:
     * **Most players under-read the break**
     * **For a severe downhill putt, walk around to look at it from from an uphill view.** (For an uphill putt, there is no need to look at the downhill view.)
     * Putting is an arc-motion
     * Training aid: A putting arc, e.g. from https://theputtingarc.com
     * Pendulum motion: This motion might be a little shorter on the follow through when you strike a ball
       (compared to your practice swing when you don't strike the ball)
     * For most players:
       + Alignment is better if your eyes are directly over the target line
       + A little inside the line is ok
       + Outside the line does not work
       + Drill: On a straight putt, put a 2m string on stakes directly over the line, then check your eyes are over the ball
       + Use the alignment line on your ball
       + **Choose an intermediate target a foot or two in front of your ball (for alignment)**
   - *50-1h15m*
   - Putting distance control:
     * **Practice: putt while looking at the hole**
     * **Pre-putt routine: do a practice putt motion while looking at the hole**
   - Trivia - Smash factor: ball speed divided by club head speed
     * Driver smash factor is 1.5
     * Other woods, hybrids and irons are less than 1.5
     * Putter smash factor is 1.87
   - Putter setup:
     * Sole flat on the ground
     * Shoulders and forearms parallel to target line
     * **Training aid: Putting mirror** (e.g. at https://eyelinegolf.com) to check:
       + Your shoulders are aligned
       + Your forearms are aligned
       + Your eyes are over the target line
       + Your eyes are over same spot of the target line
     * Is your putter shaft too long?
     * Arm swing:
       + not a shoulder swing as this tends to make the head move back and forth
       + shoulders move because the arms are attached
       + allows you to keep most of your body "quiet"
   - **The most important aspect of reading greens: Where is the green uphill/downhill [between ball and hole]?**
     * He demonstrates [almost] the same strength putt uphill and downhill; the contrast in distance is remarkable
     * You can read the slope by looking at the colour of the grass (grain):
       + Uphill = dark
       + Downhill = light
       + Easiest to do at the middle of the day
   - **Try to imagine the apex of your putt**
     * **Usually the end result is better if you aim too high than too low**
   - *1h15m-1h38m*
   - Tour player putting stats:
     * From 3 feet: Tour player makes 99/100
     * From 8 feet: Tour player makes 50/100
     * From 15-17 feet: Tour player makes 15/100
     * They 3-putt once every 2½ rounds of golf
   - Focused putting practice:
     * **Practice making putts: 3-8 feet; you should be making most of these**
     * **Practice avoiding 3-putts, from the distance where you start to 3-putt**; e.g. 20-30 feet and longer
   - Practice these chipping shots:
     * 50% carry + 50% roll
     * ⅓ carry with ⅔ roll; and ⅔ carry with ⅓ roll
     * Perhaps ¼ carry with ¾ roll; and ¾ carry with ¼ roll
   - Choice of chip shot:
     * Depending on the grass type and cut around the fringe, you will often need to have the first bounce land on the green
     * Depending on the above decision, choose the chip shot with the most roll
   - **Putting game for distance control**:
     * Use 3 markers (e.g. coins):
       + Marker 1: At the putting spot
       + Marker 2: 6 feet away
       + Marker 3: 12 feet away (in approximately a straight line)
     * Each time you putt between marker 2 and 3
       + You get 1 point
       + You move marker 2 to the distance where your ball stopped
       + You get another turn to putt
     * When you miss (i.e. the ball stops short of marker 2 or beyond marker 3)
       + You add up your points
       + Your turn ends (and the next person has a turn if you are playing against others)
     * The objective is to get the most points
       + Hence the strategy is to putt the least distance past marker 2 as possible


## MrShortGame - Matt Fisher

1. [MrShortGame | How to Make More Putts with No Practice! (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wcNM04zTVo0)

   Things to try while on the course playing golf. *Do your practice while you are playing*.

   1. Read the putt of the other players in your group
   1. Find the high [and low] point of the green and course
   1. Read your chip shots like a putt
      * Also where would you like your chip to stop to make your putt easier
   1. Practice drill for quiet hands
   1. Pick a spot 1 foot ahead of the ball

1. [MrShortGame | Top 5 Green Reading Tips for Golf! (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LNfavF72bQI)

   1. As you approach the green, look for the highest point
   1. As you approach the green, look for the lowest point
   1. Watch your playing partners, especially as their ball rolls within 10 feet of the hole
   1. Make sure the info about the green matches up (i.e. makes sense) when you look at the line from behind your ball
   1. Look at the grain of the grass

1. [MrShortGame | Putting Drill to Make More Birdies! (The 20 foot putt) (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z_PR18lvbmY)
   * Pace out 20 feet
   * Warm up by:
     + putting with one hand
     + using alignment stick across shoulders
     + feel shoulder rotation is correct
   * Drill:
     + You will be putting from a marked point on the green, through a
       gate to the hole
     + Mark a point on the practice green with sharpie [or ball marker
       or coin which allows you to adjust the position]
     + About a foot in front of the mark, make a "gate" by inserting 2
       tees just wider than the golf ball
     + Lie an alignment stick 3 feet past the hole
     + The objective is to putt from the mark, through the gate and
       either into the hole or beyond the hole but stop before the
       alignment stick
     + Repeat with marker 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 feet behind the gate (21, 22, 23, 24, 25 feet from the hole)

1. [MrShortGame | Best Lag Putting Drill! (40-60 feet) (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x3C2z75xVyY)
   * Make 4 quadrants/areas at the edge of the practice green (using 5 clubs)
   * Pace out 40 feet
   * Putt 5 balls into each area
   * Next day repeat for 50 feet
   * Next day repeat for 60 feet


## My putting thoughts

I confess that I putt with the [claw grip](Links_PuttingClawSaw.md).
I am not a great putter but I feel my putting has improved since
changing to this grip 8 months ago (in late 2021).


### Rock your shoulders when putting

I prefer the feeling of "rocking" my shoulders when putting rather than
"rotating" the shoulders. (This is a little controversial as some putting
coaches advocate the opposite!)

* During the backswing I have the sensation that my left shoulder is moving
  down (towards the ground) and my right shoulder is moving up (towards the
  sky).
* During the downswing and follow through I have the sensation that my left
  shoulder is moving up (towards the sky) and my right shoulder is moving
  down (towards the ground)

1. [We play golf (Tom Blanckaert) | Rock your shoulders, don't rotate while you putt - Easy golf tip! (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?app=desktop&v=Zud6JJ2Z4UA)

1. [Neville Walker | Master Your Putting to Master Your Game: Ezines - Shoulders | 2008-2022](https://www.better-golf-by-putting-better.com/shoulders.html)

1. [Neville Walker | Master Your Putting to Master Your Game: UPPER BODY - Shoulder Movement | 2008-2022](https://www.better-golf-by-putting-better.com/putting-stroke.html#upperbody)


### A good putt starts with a good takeaway

Assuming you've setup properly for your putt...

* It is almost impossible for your putter head to follow the correct path
  towards the ball if you took the putter away (from address) on the wrong
  path.
* It is easier to adjust the speed of your putt by adjusting the length of
  your takeaway (and follow through)... rather than have a similar length
  takeaway for every putting speed. See Aussie Golf Pros equal 
  backswing/followthrough link above.


## Putting quotes

* [Neville Walker | Master Your Putting to Master Your Game: Putting Quotes | 2008-2022](https://www.better-golf-by-putting-better.com/putting-quotes.html)

Commit message:

Add section re Cam Smith putting

Links_Putting.md, after:

# Putting

## Cameron Smith

1. [LIV Golf | LIV Lessons: Cam Smith - Chapter 1 | Putting Fundamentals | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uAy-XOULxTg)
   - The Fundamentals: Grip, Setup, Balance & Tempo of the Stroke |
     The Grip | Best Advice Cam’s Ever Received | The Set Up |
     Cam’s Pre-Shot Routine | Falling in Love With the Line |
     Finding Your Balance | Identifying the Path | Tempo Tips —
     The Speed of the Putt 

1. [LIV Golf | LIV Lessons: Cam Smith - Chapter 2 | Putting Distance Control | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5S8H3kynCTU) & Green Reading
   - Controlling Your Tempo & Backswing | How to Read the Green (With
     Your Feet) | Straddling Your Line, Feeling the Weight |
     Reading the Green Can Be a Personal Preference | Slope & Grain |
     Which Way Is the Grass Growing? | Mirror Drills | Step #1 — Make
     Sure You’re Set Up Right | What Cam Does Before Every Round


## Aimee Cho

1. [Aimee Cho | Perfect Putting Starts Here!! (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xfz9mTZntHc&list=PL0uaI4r3925QcWIyXqdegaBR8ulbBjgfb&index=14)

   - Basic putting - lesson summary
     * Stance: Inside shoulder width
     * Ball position: below left (lead) eye
     * Grip in palms
     * Bow lead wrist
     * Elbows rotate inward (but not touching body). Pinch your armpits.
     * Use core (abs) to rock shoulders
     * Stroke size 1:1
   - [Aimee Cho | Basics to Clutch Putting (video) | 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7bfo5sA4h8E&list=PL0uaI4r3925QcWIyXqdegaBR8ulbBjgfb&index=1)
     Putting, lesson 1
   - [Aimee Cho | Putting Made Simple (video) | 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BVlokgkTzIs&list=PL0uaI4r3925QcWIyXqdegaBR8ulbBjgfb&index=2)
     Putting, lesson 2

1. [Aimee Cho | Master Short Putts (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rhp62H0mKbU&list=PL0uaI4r3925QcWIyXqdegaBR8ulbBjgfb&index=3)

   - Putting, lesson 3
   - Choose your speed first; then choose your break/line according to the speed you've decided on.
   - [3m33s] Speed control drill; outdoors with hole cup
   - [4m41s] Speed control drill; indoors with coin
   - [Aimee Cho | Best Putting Tip of Your Life (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sKRgzhBfKzo&list=PL0uaI4r3925QcWIyXqdegaBR8ulbBjgfb&index=10) Focus on first 3 inches


## Aussie Golf Pros

* Long putts - equal backswing/followthrough:
  [Aussie Golf Pros (Glen Haynes) | Myth No.4 - Accelerate Through Putts (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wSWC3_xv8Vc)
* Reading greens: [Aussie Golf Pros (Glen Haynes) | Complete Guide To Green Reading (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=06bT7LGEh90)
* Reading greens: [Aussie Golf Pros (Glen Haynes) | Putting - Green Reading (Why You Miss On The Low Side - Amateur Miss) (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W9C-8H2dIA4)
* Distance control drill/game: [Glen Haynes | Putting Game for Perfect Pace | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TrKgEFB2HEI)
* Short putt drill/game: [The Best Putting Drill - Clockface (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VGMUaBdZE84)


## Golf Sidekick

[Golf Sidekick & Michele Low | How I Changed My Putting Stroke Grip - My First Ever Putting Lesson Michele Low | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CoVrDVPM0wM)

- Have a correct and consistent setup:
  * Grip more along the *life line* which promotes:
    + less wristy putts [hence more repeatable speed]
    + elbows tucking into body [hence more repeatable line]
  * Grip loosely; just enough to support the putter
  * Stance about shoulder width
  * Ball under the left eye which promotes striking the ball while putter head is moving up
  * Eyes slightly inside the line of the ball-to-target line (if you stand too far from the
    ball the putter head moves on more of an arc (viewed from above) during the stroke)
  * Hands should be over the ball (viewed from the front). [In other words, you have a *tiny* forward shaft lean.]
- Rock your shoulders; do not allow the body to move forward during the stoke
- You need to consistently hit the middle of the club face
  * Drill:
    + Add a rubber band on each side of the (putter head) sweet spot
    + When you practice putting, you will feel when you miss the sweet spot
- You need good rhythm [i.e. sequence of movement] and tempo [i.e. speed]
- Preshot routine the same (and so same duration) for 3 foot and 30 foot putts; the preshot routine starts after you have decided on your line
- Use a ball with an alignment mark
- For long putts: Consider feeling what speed to hit the putt in advance by:
  * taking your setup (but away from the ball)
  * looking at the hole
  * practice the speed of your stroke [since for long putts, speed is more important than line]
- *Matt's* takeaways from the lesson:
  * Wider stance.
  * Ball under my left eye.
  * Hands over the ball (not ahead or behind).
  * Line on the ball removes one variable - alignment.
  * Longer backstroke and less jab.
  * Let the putter head release.
  * Consistent strike and preshot routine are key.
  * Stand closer to the ball.


## The Golf Sensei - Ed Schwent

1. [This Short Game Clinic Will Change Your Life | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8GFfzVj8_H4)
   - This is a very long video, 1h38m, so I've shown 4 blocks of time in the notes below.
   - *0-25m*
   - **Practice 15 yard & 30 yard shots**
     * Use a lofted club and be more aggressive (from 15 & 30 yards)
     * Use forward shaft lean
     * Clock face concept (e.g. 9 o'clock to 3 o'clock) is only a guide; don't think too much about where to stop on backswing
     * Backswing and follow through distance should be fairly symmetrical
     * Don't try to force backspin (or lack of backspin)
   - *25-50m*
   - Chip: Runs more than carry
     * Back in stance
     * Hands forward
     * Low point in front of the ball (like a full swing iron shot)
   - Pitch: Carry more than run
     * Low point under the ball
   - Chipping/pitching drill:
     * Put an alignment stick a few inches behind the ball
     * Brush the grass, but...
     * Make sure you don't hit the stick on the down swing
   - Putting:
     * **Most players under-read the break**
     * **For a severe downhill putt, walk around to look at it from from an uphill view.** (For an uphill putt, there is no need to look at the downhill view.)
     * Putting is an arc-motion
     * Training aid: A putting arc, e.g. from https://theputtingarc.com
     * Pendulum motion: This motion might be a little shorter on the follow through when you strike a ball
       (compared to your practice swing when you don't strike the ball)
     * For most players:
       + Alignment is better if your eyes are directly over the target line
       + A little inside the line is ok
       + Outside the line does not work
       + Drill: On a straight putt, put a 2m string on stakes directly over the line, then check your eyes are over the ball
       + Use the alignment line on your ball
       + **Choose an intermediate target a foot or two in front of your ball (for alignment)**
   - *50-1h15m*
   - Putting distance control:
     * **Practice: putt while looking at the hole**
     * **Pre-putt routine: do a practice putt motion while looking at the hole**
   - Trivia - Smash factor: ball speed divided by club head speed
     * Driver smash factor is 1.5
     * Other woods, hybrids and irons are less than 1.5
     * Putter smash factor is 1.87
   - Putter setup:
     * Sole flat on the ground
     * Shoulders and forearms parallel to target line
     * **Training aid: Putting mirror** (e.g. at https://eyelinegolf.com) to check:
       + Your shoulders are aligned
       + Your forearms are aligned
       + Your eyes are over the target line
       + Your eyes are over same spot of the target line
     * Is your putter shaft too long?
     * Arm swing:
       + not a shoulder swing as this tends to make the head move back and forth
       + shoulders move because the arms are attached
       + allows you to keep most of your body "quiet"
   - **The most important aspect of reading greens: Where is the green uphill/downhill [between ball and hole]?**
     * He demonstrates [almost] the same strength putt uphill and downhill; the contrast in distance is remarkable
     * You can read the slope by looking at the colour of the grass (grain):
       + Uphill = dark
       + Downhill = light
       + Easiest to do at the middle of the day
   - **Try to imagine the apex of your putt**
     * **Usually the end result is better if you aim too high than too low**
   - *1h15m-1h38m*
   - Tour player putting stats:
     * From 3 feet: Tour player makes 99/100
     * From 8 feet: Tour player makes 50/100
     * From 15-17 feet: Tour player makes 15/100
     * They 3-putt once every 2½ rounds of golf
   - Focused putting practice:
     * **Practice making putts: 3-8 feet; you should be making most of these**
     * **Practice avoiding 3-putts, from the distance where you start to 3-putt**; e.g. 20-30 feet and longer
   - Practice these chipping shots:
     * 50% carry + 50% roll
     * ⅓ carry with ⅔ roll; and ⅔ carry with ⅓ roll
     * Perhaps ¼ carry with ¾ roll; and ¾ carry with ¼ roll
   - Choice of chip shot:
     * Depending on the grass type and cut around the fringe, you will often need to have the first bounce land on the green
     * Depending on the above decision, choose the chip shot with the most roll
   - **Putting game for distance control**:
     * Use 3 markers (e.g. coins):
       + Marker 1: At the putting spot
       + Marker 2: 6 feet away
       + Marker 3: 12 feet away (in approximately a straight line)
     * Each time you putt between marker 2 and 3
       + You get 1 point
       + You move marker 2 to the distance where your ball stopped
       + You get another turn to putt
     * When you miss (i.e. the ball stops short of marker 2 or beyond marker 3)
       + You add up your points
       + Your turn ends (and the next person has a turn if you are playing against others)
     * The objective is to get the most points
       + Hence the strategy is to putt the least distance past marker 2 as possible


## MrShortGame - Matt Fisher

1. [MrShortGame | How to Make More Putts with No Practice! (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wcNM04zTVo0)

   Things to try while on the course playing golf. *Do your practice while you are playing*.

   1. Read the putt of the other players in your group
   1. Find the high [and low] point of the green and course
   1. Read your chip shots like a putt
      * Also where would you like your chip to stop to make your putt easier
   1. Practice drill for quiet hands
   1. Pick a spot 1 foot ahead of the ball

1. [MrShortGame | Top 5 Green Reading Tips for Golf! (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LNfavF72bQI)

   1. As you approach the green, look for the highest point
   1. As you approach the green, look for the lowest point
   1. Watch your playing partners, especially as their ball rolls within 10 feet of the hole
   1. Make sure the info about the green matches up (i.e. makes sense) when you look at the line from behind your ball
   1. Look at the grain of the grass

1. [MrShortGame | Putting Drill to Make More Birdies! (The 20 foot putt) (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z_PR18lvbmY)
   * Pace out 20 feet
   * Warm up by:
     + putting with one hand
     + using alignment stick across shoulders
     + feel shoulder rotation is correct
   * Drill:
     + You will be putting from a marked point on the green, through a
       gate to the hole
     + Mark a point on the practice green with sharpie [or ball marker
       or coin which allows you to adjust the position]
     + About a foot in front of the mark, make a "gate" by inserting 2
       tees just wider than the golf ball
     + Lie an alignment stick 3 feet past the hole
     + The objective is to putt from the mark, through the gate and
       either into the hole or beyond the hole but stop before the
       alignment stick
     + Repeat with marker 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 feet behind the gate (21, 22, 23, 24, 25 feet from the hole)

1. [MrShortGame | Best Lag Putting Drill! (40-60 feet) (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x3C2z75xVyY)
   * Make 4 quadrants/areas at the edge of the practice green (using 5 clubs)
   * Pace out 40 feet
   * Putt 5 balls into each area
   * Next day repeat for 50 feet
   * Next day repeat for 60 feet


## My putting thoughts

I confess that I putt with the [claw grip](Links_PuttingClawSaw.md).
I am not a great putter but I feel my putting has improved since
changing to this grip 8 months ago (in late 2021).


### Rock your shoulders when putting

I prefer the feeling of "rocking" my shoulders when putting rather than
"rotating" the shoulders. (This is a little controversial as some putting
coaches advocate the opposite!)

* During the backswing I have the sensation that my left shoulder is moving
  down (towards the ground) and my right shoulder is moving up (towards the
  sky).
* During the downswing and follow through I have the sensation that my left
  shoulder is moving up (towards the sky) and my right shoulder is moving
  down (towards the ground)

1. [We play golf (Tom Blanckaert) | Rock your shoulders, don't rotate while you putt - Easy golf tip! (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?app=desktop&v=Zud6JJ2Z4UA)

1. [Neville Walker | Master Your Putting to Master Your Game: Ezines - Shoulders | 2008-2022](https://www.better-golf-by-putting-better.com/shoulders.html)

1. [Neville Walker | Master Your Putting to Master Your Game: UPPER BODY - Shoulder Movement | 2008-2022](https://www.better-golf-by-putting-better.com/putting-stroke.html#upperbody)


### A good putt starts with a good takeaway

Assuming you've setup properly for your putt...

* It is almost impossible for your putter head to follow the correct path
  towards the ball if you took the putter away (from address) on the wrong
  path.
* It is easier to adjust the speed of your putt by adjusting the length of
  your takeaway (and follow through)... rather than have a similar length
  takeaway for every putting speed. See Aussie Golf Pros equal 
  backswing/followthrough link above.


## Putting quotes

* [Neville Walker | Master Your Putting to Master Your Game: Putting Quotes | 2008-2022](https://www.better-golf-by-putting-better.com/putting-quotes.html)
