Links_BunkerGreenside2.md, before:

# Greenside bunker shots - more links


1. [The Art of Simple Golf | Every Golfer Gets Out of Any Bunker Every Time Doing This Simple Technique (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k4AsDHJpzu4)
   - He suggests a closed stance to get consistent entry point!!!
   - Accelerate without losing your posture
   - Sternum, top of the grip and club head in a straight line
   - Do not sway
   - 70% of weight on the front side

1. [ChrisRyanGolf | AVOID THESE 3 KILLER MISTAKES IN THE BUNKER (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U_kfhg4mBZM)
   - Too much weight on the trail side
   - Cutting across the golf ball
   - The amount of sand taken [take a shallower parcel of sand]

1. [ChrisRyanGolf | Bunker Play : The 5 Worst Mistakes And How To Easily Fix Them (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VDZapXxnnlo)
   - Setting the club face open
   - Aligning too far open
   - Ball position and weight [IMPORTANT]
   - Length of backswing [check point: shaft points behind the back foot at the top of the backswing]
   - Poor concept of impact [concept: club head travels *forwards* through the sand to carry the parcel
     of sand onto the green; not the concept of hitting down into the sand]

1. [Mark Crossfield | I Cheat from the bunker you should too (golf swing tips) (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mN7AH1bJ0WM)
   - Speed
     * Arm swing
     * Shoulder to shoulder swing
     * Plenty of body rotation
   - Open the club face and maintain loft during the swing
   - At the end of the swing, club face should point towards your own face
   - For a longer shot, use a longer wedge
   - Aim for the fat part of the green when necessary
   - Check what sort of sand you are playing from
   - Exaggerate the body rotation

1. [Steve Johnston Golf | This Bunker Shot Technique is SO EASY You'll be Shocked (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vw7kMe9Cu3Y)
   - Hard sand [I like this technique]
     * Strike the sand with the tow of the club face (hence less resistance by the sand)
     * Upright shaft (handle is high) and steep swing plane
     * Right shoulder is high at address
     * [Narrower/taller stance]
   - Soft sand
     * Strike the sand with the middle of the club face (i.e. middle of the bounce)
     * Lower shaft (handle is low) and shallow swing plane (around the body)
     * Left shoulder is high at address
     * Wider stance

1. [gabbygolfgirl | How to Get Out of a BUNKER - Golf Basics (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bzd_NS8l2bA)
   - Long, medium and short bunker shots
   - Have the right loft
   - Know the slopes of the green and pick your landing spot
   - Have enough speed

1. [MrShortGame Golf | 95% of Golfers Do This Wrong when in the Bunkers! (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ivle23paCQk)
   - Problem: Weight too far back.
     * Fix: Put weight on the left heel (instead of left toes) to encourage left hip to open during the follow through.
   - Problem: Too much forward shaft lean at impact.
     * Fix: Take a longer backswing, then wait so that the club head starts the downswing.
     * Fix: Let the club head pass your hands at impact.
   - Problem: Ball too far back.
     * Fix: Place the ball just inside the left heel which will be the center/bottom of the swing arc (when most of your weight is over the left leg).

1. [The Golf Sensei | This Will Cure Your Fear of Bunker Shots Instantly (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e_n5JsNeokA)
   - 3m50s In a "properly maintained bunker", for a 10 yard bunker shot you need to swing like a 30 yard shot from the turf (i.e. ratio of 1:3).
   - 26m26s You are not permitted to ground your club in a bunker. So to consistently control the low point of your club during the swing,
     address the ball with the left arm slightly bent (for a right handed player)... then ensure you straighten it during your backswing
     (and keep it straight during your downswing).
   - 32m08s How to hit a bunker shot from a plugged lie? Close the club face so the leading edge of the club does dig into the sand under the ball.

Commit message:

Update: My bunker shots & links

Links_BunkerGreenside2.md, after:

# Greenside bunker shots - more links


1. [The Art of Simple Golf | Every Golfer Gets Out of Any Bunker Every Time Doing This Simple Technique (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k4AsDHJpzu4)
   - He suggests a closed stance to get consistent entry point!!!
   - Accelerate without losing your posture
   - Sternum, top of the grip and club head in a straight line
   - Do not sway
   - 70% of weight on the front side

1. [The Art of Simple Golf | Divot Magic For Green Side Bunkers OUT Every Time | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NJiiFZQLQaI)
   - Swing thought: Take a divot in the bunker
   - Swing thought: Let the club head throw the divot-sand onto the green

1. [ChrisRyanGolf | AVOID THESE 3 KILLER MISTAKES IN THE BUNKER (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U_kfhg4mBZM)
   - Too much weight on the trail side
   - Cutting across the golf ball
   - The amount of sand taken [take a shallower parcel of sand]

1. [ChrisRyanGolf | Bunker Play : The 5 Worst Mistakes And How To Easily Fix Them (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VDZapXxnnlo)
   - Setting the club face open
   - Aligning too far open
   - Ball position and weight [IMPORTANT]
   - Length of backswing [check point: shaft points behind the back foot at the top of the backswing]
   - Poor concept of impact [concept: club head travels *forwards* through the sand to carry the parcel
     of sand onto the green; not the concept of hitting down into the sand]

1. [Mark Crossfield | I Cheat from the bunker you should too (golf swing tips) (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mN7AH1bJ0WM)
   - Speed
     * Arm swing
     * Shoulder to shoulder swing
     * Plenty of body rotation
   - Open the club face and maintain loft during the swing
   - At the end of the swing, club face should point towards your own face
   - For a longer shot, use a longer wedge
   - Aim for the fat part of the green when necessary
   - Check what sort of sand you are playing from
   - Exaggerate the body rotation

1. [Steve Johnston Golf | This Bunker Shot Technique is SO EASY You'll be Shocked (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vw7kMe9Cu3Y)
   - Hard sand [I like this technique]
     * Strike the sand with the tow of the club face (hence less resistance by the sand)
     * Upright shaft (handle is high) and steep swing plane
     * Right shoulder is high at address
     * [Narrower/taller stance]
   - Soft sand
     * Strike the sand with the middle of the club face (i.e. middle of the bounce)
     * Lower shaft (handle is low) and shallow swing plane (around the body)
     * Left shoulder is high at address
     * Wider stance

1. [gabbygolfgirl | How to Get Out of a BUNKER - Golf Basics (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bzd_NS8l2bA)
   - Long, medium and short bunker shots
   - Have the right loft
   - Know the slopes of the green and pick your landing spot
   - Have enough speed

1. [MrShortGame Golf | 95% of Golfers Do This Wrong when in the Bunkers! (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ivle23paCQk)
   - Problem: Weight too far back.
     * Fix: Put weight on the left heel (instead of left toes) to encourage left hip to open during the follow through.
   - Problem: Too much forward shaft lean at impact.
     * Fix: Take a longer backswing, then wait so that the club head starts the downswing.
     * Fix: Let the club head pass your hands at impact.
   - Problem: Ball too far back.
     * Fix: Place the ball just inside the left heel which will be the center/bottom of the swing arc (when most of your weight is over the left leg).

1. [The Golf Sensei | This Will Cure Your Fear of Bunker Shots Instantly (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e_n5JsNeokA)
   - 3m50s In a "properly maintained bunker", for a 10 yard bunker shot you need to swing like a 30 yard shot from the turf (i.e. ratio of 1:3).
   - 26m26s You are not permitted to ground your club in a bunker. So to consistently control the low point of your club during the swing,
     address the ball with the left arm slightly bent (for a right handed player)... then ensure you straighten it during your backswing
     (and keep it straight during your downswing).
   - 32m08s How to hit a bunker shot from a plugged lie? Close the club face so the leading edge of the club does dig into the sand under the ball.
