Links_BunkerGreenside.md, before:

# Greenside bunker shots

1. [Golf Sidekick - Matt | How to Play out of Every Type of Bunker the Golf Sidekick Way | 2018](https://www.golfsidekick.com/knowledge/how-to-play-bunker-shots/)
   - Open stance
   - Open club face
   - No forward shaft lean
   - Loosen up them wrists!
     * Hinge those wrists
     * No stiff wrists
   - Enter the sand one inch behind the ball and follow through
     * One inch
     * Accelerate / release
     * Follow through
   - Practice...
     * [Lose your fear]
     * Get down to a green side bunker facility and **draw a line behind the ball where you want to enter the sand**.
     * Remember to hinge your wrists on the way back and again on the way down after follow through.
     * Slap that sand with the sole of the club using your right hand and finish your swing.
   - Avoid:
     * Stiff wrists
     * Using a chipping technique
     * Hitting down into the sand with the leading edge 
     * No follow through on the shot
     * Entering the sand too far behind the ball
     * Trying to clip the ball off the sand
     * Simply never practicing bunker shots at all
   - Related links:
     * [Golf Sidekick - Matt | No BS: HOW TO GET OUT OF BUNKERS FIRST TIME!! (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V8aFklVA6EA)
     * [Golf Sidekick - Matt | How to Get Out of Bunkers First Time Every Time - Fairway, Green side, Plugged Lies, Fried Egg (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4JJeiKxt7YQ)
     * [Golf Sidekick - Matt | Bunker Shots for Beginners | 2017](https://www.golfsidekick.com/knowledge/bunker-shots-beginners/)


1. [AlexElliottGolf | THE ONLY SUPER SIMPLE BUNKER SHOT LESSON YOU NEED! (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LlRxGDd-lNQ) Setup: 0m40s-1m57s
   - [Stance wider than shoulder width]
   - The ball is a club-head-width inside your left/lead heel
   - Flare the feet
   - Dig the feet into the sand
   - Hold the club in the air, open the face slightly then regrip
   - Bend your knees so your hips and upper body move down (towards the sand)
     * Weight mostly on your left/lead leg
     * The resulting lie-angle will cause the club face to point further left
       (hence compensating for the slightly open/right-facing club face)

1. [ChrisRyanGolf | The EASIEST Way To Get Out ANY Bunker! (ITS NOT HARD) (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XFkVfKZ2Sfw) For level 2 (high shot):
   - Wide stance
   - Ball forward of center
   - Weight more on the lead/right leg
   - Swing thought: Move sand from bunker onto the green
   - Hips lower so that the hands/handle is lower (has side-effect of pointing face left).
     This makes the swing arc flatter.
   - Open club face (i.e. point the face right)
   - Bend wrists at take away (L-shape angle between forearms and shaft)
   - Big release of the wrists through the impact zone
   - Don't rotate forearm because that would point the club "down" (close the face)

1. [MrShortGame Golf | THE 5 BIGGEST MISTAKES GOLFERS MAKE WHEN IN A BUNKER (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OnAYI7Ra7Zg)
   - Club selection:
     * How far do you need to hit to the hole? Consider taking a longer club (e.g. gap wedge)
       and open the face.
     * What type of sand? Fluffy sand requires more bounce / hard packed sand requires less bounce
     * [How much height do you need to hit over the lip?]
   - Keep hands low throughout the swing (so that you don't allow the swing to be too steep)
   - Use a longer swing (i.e. hands to the shoulder on the backswing)
   - Accelerate when hands are at your thighs through to [and past] impact
   - Wide stance and bend your knees (and weight on left/lead leg)

1. [MrShortGame Golf | 3 Golf Bunker Myths you MUST KNOW ABOUT! (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lPnUA3htUDA)
   - Club selection as above
   - Instead of thinking "hit 2 inches behind the ball" think that you need to "slice the
     legs off from under the ball" (so that you don't hit too far behind the ball)
   - You don't need to open the club face a lot for every bunker shot. Opening the face a
     little is sometimes adequate.

1. [Danny Maude | Possibly the BEST Bunker Tip EVER! - How to play bunker shots from Hard or Soft Sand (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RHlr_KyG26A)
   - Club face naturally opens during backswing...
   - Don't allow the club to close through the impact zone.
   - Hit sand 2 inches behind the ball.
   - One arm drills.

1. [Danny Maude | EASIEST way to get out of ANY Bunker - NEW DISCOVERY! (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nXnusNYElco)
   - Step #1: Assess where you contact the sand:
     * Draw tramlines (2 club-head widths apart)
     * Lines are at right angles to the target line
     * Imaginary ball in the middle of tramlines
     * Are you striking the sand in the center of the tramlines?
   - Step #2: Assess depth control (how much sand you take):
     * Tramlines as per first 3 points above
     * Are you taking a small amount of sand (length of $5 note)?
   - Drill to get feedback:
     * Left/lead foot in the middle of tramlines
     * Right foot well back, behind the left foot
     * Almost all your weight is over the lead foot
     * Feel the right balance as you take your normal bunker swing
       (including hitting through the sand)
     * Hold your finish position with your body facing the target
   - Distance control:
     * After perfecting the above...
     * Short: hands move from hip height on backswing to hip height on follow through
     * Long: hands move from chest height on backswing to chest height on follow through
     * Long: consider using a 50° or 60° wedge
   - For firm sand:
     * Use chopping motion into the sand
     * Throw the heel of the club firmly into the sand (not using the bounce of the club)

1. [Top Speed Golf - Clay Ballard | The Only Simple Bunker Lesson You Will Need (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gFCLH5QZ3Mg)
   - Info below is for a 15-20 yard bunker shot
   - Ball off the front foot
   - Most of your weight over the front foot
   - Open stance
   - Flare out the front foot
   - Virtually a full swing, ~70mph club head speed (not a weak 35mph)
   - Face open by ~30 degrees
   - Hit the sand 6-7" behind ball (not 2" as commonly recommended)

1. [Top Speed Golf - Clay Ballard | Best Bunker Tips | How to Play Bunkers - Hard or Soft Sand (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FVqWoduC-tk)
   - 0m32s: Soft sand (15m / 50 foot shot):
     * Face open, ~45°
     * Wide stance (dig your shoes into the sand)
     * Ball forward in stance
     * Weight on front foot
     * Swing vertical / thump the sand
     * Hit the sand 4-6" behind ball
     * Big/full swing [with follow through and body facing target]
   - 5m05s: Hard/wet sand (15m / 50 foot shot):
     * Face less open, ~30°
     * Hit the sand closer to the ball; 2-4" behind ball
     * Hit down to penetrate the wet, hard sand
     * Swing ultra-aggressive (even more aggressive than soft sand because you are trying to **penetrate** the **hard sand**) / thump the sand
     * Other aspects as for soft sand [including big/full swing with follow through and body facing target]

1. [Aussie Golf Pros | Hard Sand | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WY3zL-oiqCE)

1. [Golf Channel - Nathalie Filler | 'Butterfly' Bunker Shot Grip (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1FuSXHJhZto) - high shot

1. [16 authors | When hitting out of a greenside bunker, how would your technique change for longer vs. shorter shots? More swing? Different clubs? | 2022](https://backswing.com/roundup/greenside-bunker-swing/)
   * [Distance control for green side bunkers (video)](https://backswing.com/roundup/greenside-bunker-swing/#83170)
     + Video also directly available [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N5RTqgmgWe0)
   * [3 Ways… 3 Levels](https://backswing.com/roundup/greenside-bunker-swing/#83168)
     + Loft
     + Length and/or Speed of Swing
     + V-Shaped vs. U-Shaped... A V-shaped swing is where the player actively hinges the wrist abruptly and unhinges them just as quick near impact... With this technique the body should stay relatively still and passive
   * [Use the right club and vary swing length](https://backswing.com/roundup/greenside-bunker-swing/#83147)
     + The two most important keys to being a good bunker player is consistent entry point into the sand and consistent depth of cut. When you use more loft than you need you’ll need a bigger swing. The bigger your swing the harder it is to repeat these. Try a less lofted wedge and make the swing shorter.
     + ...try to keep the length of the backswing short and the speed through the sand up
     + ...the longer the ball is in the air–the more it will tend to fade
   * [Distance control in Greenside Sand](https://backswing.com/roundup/greenside-bunker-swing/#83143)
     + If the technique is sound, the ball will go exactly in the direction the sand goes. After that it’s all about making the sand go different distances. Ultimately the distance the sand goes is directly related to the amount of force applied to it. This may come from from many different applications such as swing size, varying follow through lengths, different clubs, etc.
     + Get in that bunker without a ball and get really good at moving that sand a desired distance and direction.
   * [Easiest Shot in Golf](https://backswing.com/roundup/greenside-bunker-swing/#83160)
     + Open the club to the desired open face and face your top hand with palm up. The lower hand will be the same. This will keep the club face open thru the swing.
   * [Better Bunker Play](https://backswing.com/roundup/greenside-bunker-swing/#83166)
     + In order to execute a proper bunker shot, practice “flopping” the ball over a bunker to better understand how the sand wedge works. Proper shaft angle at address, grip pressure and “using the bounce” are key elements and can simplify the fear of this shot.


## More bunker info

1. [Golf Digest - Butch Harmon | Use Butch Harmon's keys to simplify bunker shots | 2019](https://www.golfdigest.com/story/use-butch-harmons-keys-to-simplify-bunker-shots)
1. [Scott Mahlberg | Taking Too Much Sand in the Bunker (video) | 2014](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xpMZo-fqV1E)
1. [Gravity Golf | Sand shots made easy using gravity (video) | 2018](https://gravitygolf.com/sand-shots-made-easy-using-gravity-golf/)
1. [WhyGolf | How to Master the Bunker Shot | Bunker Mate | 2022](https://whygolf.com/blogs/whysguyscorner/how-to-hit-a-bunker-shot)
1. [Greg Norman | FOUR 'MUSTS' IN BUNKERS | c.2017](https://shark.com/the-shark/golf-tips/lesson-57/)
1. Michael Hamilton Golf | The Bunker Series | 2018
   * [Bunker: Addressing the ball](https://michaelhamiltongolf.com/bunker-address/)
   * [Bunker: The club](http://michaelhamiltongolf.com/bunker-the-club/)
   * [Bunker: Ball striking](http://michaelhamiltongolf.com/bunker-ball-striking/)
   * [Bunker: Mid-long bunker shots](http://michaelhamiltongolf.com/bunker-mid-long-bunker-shot/)
1. [Golf Info Guide | Causes and Cures: Leaving Bunker Shots in the Sand – Golf Swing Tip | 2012](https://golf-info-guide.com/golf-tips/playing-conditions/causes-and-cures-leaving-bunker-shots-in-the-sand/)
1. [Golf Info Guide | Using Your Putter Effectively in a Bunker | 2018](https://golf-info-guide.com/golf-tips/bunker-golf-tips/using-your-putter-effectively-in-a-bunker/)


## Summary

- We must "engage the bounce" of the sand wedge, hence:
  * ball forward in stance
  * weight on front foot
  * shaft must be vertical at address (or even slightly tilted away from the target) when viewed from the front
  * open the club face
  * do not release wrists much at impact or follow through (i.e. keep the club face open)
- Since we are going to hit the sand and not the ball, this requires a lot of energy, hence:
  * take a good length backswing
  * thump the sand
  * make first contact with the sand about 2" behind the ball
  * take a shallow divit (about 1" deep)
  * continue with the follow through
  * rotate your body and finish facing the target
- So we have plenty of loft to get the ball out of the bunker:
  * use a wide stance which brings the body and hands low
  * make a fairly steep backswing by:
    + breaking the wrists (so the arms and shaft form an "L" shape
    + take the club up (not too far back behind your body)
- Also:
  * dig/grind your feet into the sand (for stability)
  * grip down the shaft for more control (and to compensate for
    'low hands' due to digging feet into sand plus the wide stance)
  * flare the front foot (to promote a follow through)
- My tip:
  * after observing the lie of the ball in the bunker, consider doing
    your practice swing *outside* the bunker to check where you first
    make contact with the ground


## How to practice bunker shots... without a bunker

1. Use a towel
   - [fitzygolfpro - Brian Fitzgerald | How To Practice Bunker Shots At Home (video) | 2020](https://youtu.be/DIkS-Br_LTc)
   - [fitzygolfpro - Brian Fitzgerald | How To Practice Bunker Shots Without Any Sand Using A Towel (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VZ8N_WCpIyY)
   - [Erika Larkin | HOW TO HIT A BUNKER SHOT AT HOME: Golf Hack! (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WMu6dOw0bS0)

1. [Golf.com - Kevin Sprecher | Home Practice: Bunker Splash (video) | 2020](https://golf.com/instruction/bunker-shots/home-practice-bunker-splash/)
   - Drill 1 (sand required, but no bunker needed):
     * Use a plastic, wooden or similar board
     * Put a small pile of sand onto the board
     * Erase the sand from the board with your bunker-swing
       + Feel the club thump the board
       + Turn body towards target during the finish
       + See sand splashed out of the so-called "bunker"
   - Drill 2 (sand required, but no bunker needed):
     * As for drill 1, but:
       + place a ball on the pile of sand
       + swing as before
     * [You may require a net or limited flight (foam or hollow) practice ball if you are doing this at home]
   - Drill 3 (bunker *is* required):
     * As for drill 2, but
       + make a small pile of sand *in the bunker* 
       + place a ball on the pile of sand
       + swing as before

1. [The Art of Simple Golf - Alex Fortey | How To Practice Perfect Bunker Shots Without Needing A Sand Trap | 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X7JPVXGiPj0)
   - Acceleration drill 1:
     * Hit the tee
   - Acceleration drill 2:
     * Hit the tee out from under the ball
     * [You may require a net or limited flight (foam or hollow) practice ball if you are doing this at home]
   - Other bunker videos:
     * [The Art of Simple Golf - Alex Fortey | Bunker Distance Control Made Easy | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gHnqd42GEp8)
     * [The Art of Simple Golf - Alex Fortey | Playlist: How To Hit Bunker Shots (Easy, Simple And Best Results) | 2015-2021](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLuptRNMEA3RiaFiJd2zwl0yWlbbW2xrMW)

1. Purchase a *Bunker Board*
   - https://pelzgolf.com/product/bunker-board
   - [Dave Pelz Golf | Dave Pelz Bunker Board (video) | 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L9P_d8o3ip4)
   - [Dave Pelz Golf | Dave Pelz's Bunker Board (30 Seconds) (video) | 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gFMpHkpAXMA)
   - [The Hackers Paradise | Bunker Board forum discussion | 2015](https://www.thehackersparadise.com/forum/index.php?threads/bunker-board-from-dave-pelz-golf.78847/)

1. Purchase a *Pocket Bunker*
   - https://www.pocketbunker.com/
   - [Pocket Bunker | Pocket Bunker International Launch | 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=25pMnQ3dI1Q)
   - [MrShortGame Golf | The at Home Golf Bunker Training Aid - Pocket Bunker (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DOM3eXdphbY)
   - [Mike Sullivan | Pocket Bunker Review (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OndtaOwYevE)

1. Purchase a *Bunker Mate*
   - [WhyGolf | How to Master the Bunker Shot | Bunker Mate | 2022](https://whygolf.com/blogs/whysguyscorner/how-to-hit-a-bunker-shot)
   - [WhyGolf | Bunker Mate | 2022](https://whygolf.com/collections/training-aids/products/bunker-mate?_atid=47hhbN0y0xyTOYqrosgkfqXKVzjNOd)
   - [WhyGolf | Bunker Mate - Master Your Bunker Game (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lm2UqhVXHjg)


## Chatting with pros

1. [TaylorMade Golf | Bunker Technique with Tiger Woods & Jason Day | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nd00f4nq_ks)
1. [TaylorMade Golf | Tiger Woods, Rory McIlroy & Jason Day Short Game Session | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LsQgZzkpppw&t=12m35s)
   - 12m35s - 18m06s
   - Jason Day:
     * Get hands low (squat)
     * Take as little sand as possible
     * Hit as close as I can to the ball
     * Accelerate
   - Tiger Woods:
     * Hands "down and back"
     * Release / throw with right hand

## Trick / unexpected / pointless bunker shots

1. [PhilsDVDdotcom | Phil Mickelson's Two Ball Trick Shot | 2009](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kxyVbaqRxys)
1. [TaylorMade Golf | How Jon Rahm Hits a 4-IRON Out of a Bunker | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GW9dFmME8gs)
1. [GolfMagic - Ben Smith | GOLF RULES: CAN YOU USE THE BACK OF YOUR DRIVER TO CHUNK IT OUT OF THE BUNKER? | 2021](https://www.golfmagic.com/news/golf-rules-can-you-use-back-your-driver-chunk-it-out-bunker)

Commit message:

Add Kerrod Gray bunker links

Links_BunkerGreenside.md, after:

# Greenside bunker shots

1. [Golf Sidekick - Matt | How to Play out of Every Type of Bunker the Golf Sidekick Way | 2018](https://www.golfsidekick.com/knowledge/how-to-play-bunker-shots/)
   - Open stance
   - Open club face
   - No forward shaft lean
   - Loosen up them wrists!
     * Hinge those wrists
     * No stiff wrists
   - Enter the sand one inch behind the ball and follow through
     * One inch
     * Accelerate / release
     * Follow through
   - Practice...
     * [Lose your fear]
     * Get down to a green side bunker facility and **draw a line behind the ball where you want to enter the sand**.
     * Remember to hinge your wrists on the way back and again on the way down after follow through.
     * Slap that sand with the sole of the club using your right hand and finish your swing.
   - Avoid:
     * Stiff wrists
     * Using a chipping technique
     * Hitting down into the sand with the leading edge 
     * No follow through on the shot
     * Entering the sand too far behind the ball
     * Trying to clip the ball off the sand
     * Simply never practicing bunker shots at all
   - Related links:
     * [Golf Sidekick - Matt | No BS: HOW TO GET OUT OF BUNKERS FIRST TIME!! (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V8aFklVA6EA)
     * [Golf Sidekick - Matt | How to Get Out of Bunkers First Time Every Time - Fairway, Green side, Plugged Lies, Fried Egg (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4JJeiKxt7YQ)
     * [Golf Sidekick - Matt | Bunker Shots for Beginners | 2017](https://www.golfsidekick.com/knowledge/bunker-shots-beginners/)


1. [AlexElliottGolf | THE ONLY SUPER SIMPLE BUNKER SHOT LESSON YOU NEED! (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LlRxGDd-lNQ) Setup: 0m40s-1m57s
   - [Stance wider than shoulder width]
   - The ball is a club-head-width inside your left/lead heel
   - Flare the feet
   - Dig the feet into the sand
   - Hold the club in the air, open the face slightly then regrip
   - Bend your knees so your hips and upper body move down (towards the sand)
     * Weight mostly on your left/lead leg
     * The resulting lie-angle will cause the club face to point further left
       (hence compensating for the slightly open/right-facing club face)

1. [ChrisRyanGolf | The EASIEST Way To Get Out ANY Bunker! (ITS NOT HARD) (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XFkVfKZ2Sfw) For level 2 (high shot):
   - Wide stance
   - Ball forward of center
   - Weight more on the lead/right leg
   - Swing thought: Move sand from bunker onto the green
   - Hips lower so that the hands/handle is lower (has side-effect of pointing face left).
     This makes the swing arc flatter.
   - Open club face (i.e. point the face right)
   - Bend wrists at take away (L-shape angle between forearms and shaft)
   - Big release of the wrists through the impact zone
   - Don't rotate forearm because that would point the club "down" (close the face)

1. [MrShortGame Golf | THE 5 BIGGEST MISTAKES GOLFERS MAKE WHEN IN A BUNKER (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OnAYI7Ra7Zg)
   - Club selection:
     * How far do you need to hit to the hole? Consider taking a longer club (e.g. gap wedge)
       and open the face.
     * What type of sand? Fluffy sand requires more bounce / hard packed sand requires less bounce
     * [How much height do you need to hit over the lip?]
   - Keep hands low throughout the swing (so that you don't allow the swing to be too steep)
   - Use a longer swing (i.e. hands to the shoulder on the backswing)
   - Accelerate when hands are at your thighs through to [and past] impact
   - Wide stance and bend your knees (and weight on left/lead leg)

1. [MrShortGame Golf | 3 Golf Bunker Myths you MUST KNOW ABOUT! (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lPnUA3htUDA)
   - Club selection as above
   - Instead of thinking "hit 2 inches behind the ball" think that you need to "slice the
     legs off from under the ball" (so that you don't hit too far behind the ball)
   - You don't need to open the club face a lot for every bunker shot. Opening the face a
     little is sometimes adequate.

1. [Danny Maude | Possibly the BEST Bunker Tip EVER! - How to play bunker shots from Hard or Soft Sand (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RHlr_KyG26A)
   - Club face naturally opens during backswing...
   - Don't allow the club to close through the impact zone.
   - Hit sand 2 inches behind the ball.
   - One arm drills.

1. [Danny Maude | EASIEST way to get out of ANY Bunker - NEW DISCOVERY! (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nXnusNYElco)
   - Step #1: Assess where you contact the sand:
     * Draw tramlines (2 club-head widths apart)
     * Lines are at right angles to the target line
     * Imaginary ball in the middle of tramlines
     * Are you striking the sand in the center of the tramlines?
   - Step #2: Assess depth control (how much sand you take):
     * Tramlines as per first 3 points above
     * Are you taking a small amount of sand (length of $5 note)?
   - Drill to get feedback:
     * Left/lead foot in the middle of tramlines
     * Right foot well back, behind the left foot
     * Almost all your weight is over the lead foot
     * Feel the right balance as you take your normal bunker swing
       (including hitting through the sand)
     * Hold your finish position with your body facing the target
   - Distance control:
     * After perfecting the above...
     * Short: hands move from hip height on backswing to hip height on follow through
     * Long: hands move from chest height on backswing to chest height on follow through
     * Long: consider using a 50° or 60° wedge
   - For firm sand:
     * Use chopping motion into the sand
     * Throw the heel of the club firmly into the sand (not using the bounce of the club)

1. [Top Speed Golf - Clay Ballard | The Only Simple Bunker Lesson You Will Need (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gFCLH5QZ3Mg)
   - Info below is for a 15-20 yard bunker shot
   - Ball off the front foot
   - Most of your weight over the front foot
   - Open stance
   - Flare out the front foot
   - Virtually a full swing, ~70mph club head speed (not a weak 35mph)
   - Face open by ~30 degrees
   - Hit the sand 6-7" behind ball (not 2" as commonly recommended)

1. [Top Speed Golf - Clay Ballard | Best Bunker Tips | How to Play Bunkers - Hard or Soft Sand (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FVqWoduC-tk)
   - 0m32s: Soft sand (15m / 50 foot shot):
     * Face open, ~45°
     * Wide stance (dig your shoes into the sand)
     * Ball forward in stance
     * Weight on front foot
     * Swing vertical / thump the sand
     * Hit the sand 4-6" behind ball
     * Big/full swing [with follow through and body facing target]
   - 5m05s: Hard/wet sand (15m / 50 foot shot):
     * Face less open, ~30°
     * Hit the sand closer to the ball; 2-4" behind ball
     * Hit down to penetrate the wet, hard sand
     * Swing ultra-aggressive (even more aggressive than soft sand because you are trying to **penetrate** the **hard sand**) / thump the sand
     * Other aspects as for soft sand [including big/full swing with follow through and body facing target]

1. [Kerrod Gray Golf | HOW TO GET OUT OF THE BUNKER EVERY TIME (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P1y-9Oy3LfY)
   - Good setup; your left hand can touch your left knee
   - Not much body turn needed
   - Important: You need a lot of club head speed; very wristy; very "armsy"
   - A lot of wrist hinge during the backswing; "3 sides of a square"; club head has travelled
     a long way; club shaft is a short distance from body
   - Wrists re-hinge during the follow through; "3 sides of a square"; club head finishes high

1. [Kerrod Gray Golf - Kerrod Gray & Matt Ballard | This Bunker Tip Changed Everything (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5PXSjBxZRMI)
   - Start with loft; maintain loft; finish with loft
   - At address the club face is pointing up; you can see this by placing a tee on the face
   - "Mirror-mirror" wrist action drill:
     * pretend the club face is a mirror
     * when the club shaft is horizontal during the backswing the mirror should be (roughly) facing your head
     * when the club shaft is horizontal during the follow through the mirror should be (roughly) facing your head
   - Not a wide-swing, instead soft/bent elbows during backswing and follow through
   - Accelerate with long follow through of club head (but not hands)
   - Lead/left leg remains flexed during the backswing a well past impact
   - Drill:
     * Left arm horizontally in front of you
     * Swing the club with the trail/right arm
     * The right wrist should hinge (backswing) and re-hinge (follow through) finishing with a vertical shaft
       while the left arm remains in the original position

1. [Aussie Golf Pros | Hard Sand | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WY3zL-oiqCE)

1. [Golf Channel - Nathalie Filler | 'Butterfly' Bunker Shot Grip (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1FuSXHJhZto) - high shot

1. [16 authors | When hitting out of a greenside bunker, how would your technique change for longer vs. shorter shots? More swing? Different clubs? | 2022](https://backswing.com/roundup/greenside-bunker-swing/)
   * [Distance control for green side bunkers (video)](https://backswing.com/roundup/greenside-bunker-swing/#83170)
     + Video also directly available [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N5RTqgmgWe0)
   * [3 Ways… 3 Levels](https://backswing.com/roundup/greenside-bunker-swing/#83168)
     + Loft
     + Length and/or Speed of Swing
     + V-Shaped vs. U-Shaped... A V-shaped swing is where the player actively hinges the wrist abruptly and unhinges them just as quick near impact... With this technique the body should stay relatively still and passive
   * [Use the right club and vary swing length](https://backswing.com/roundup/greenside-bunker-swing/#83147)
     + The two most important keys to being a good bunker player is consistent entry point into the sand and consistent depth of cut. When you use more loft than you need you’ll need a bigger swing. The bigger your swing the harder it is to repeat these. Try a less lofted wedge and make the swing shorter.
     + ...try to keep the length of the backswing short and the speed through the sand up
     + ...the longer the ball is in the air–the more it will tend to fade
   * [Distance control in Greenside Sand](https://backswing.com/roundup/greenside-bunker-swing/#83143)
     + If the technique is sound, the ball will go exactly in the direction the sand goes. After that it’s all about making the sand go different distances. Ultimately the distance the sand goes is directly related to the amount of force applied to it. This may come from from many different applications such as swing size, varying follow through lengths, different clubs, etc.
     + Get in that bunker without a ball and get really good at moving that sand a desired distance and direction.
   * [Easiest Shot in Golf](https://backswing.com/roundup/greenside-bunker-swing/#83160)
     + Open the club to the desired open face and face your top hand with palm up. The lower hand will be the same. This will keep the club face open thru the swing.
   * [Better Bunker Play](https://backswing.com/roundup/greenside-bunker-swing/#83166)
     + In order to execute a proper bunker shot, practice “flopping” the ball over a bunker to better understand how the sand wedge works. Proper shaft angle at address, grip pressure and “using the bounce” are key elements and can simplify the fear of this shot.


## More bunker info

1. [Golf Digest - Butch Harmon | Use Butch Harmon's keys to simplify bunker shots | 2019](https://www.golfdigest.com/story/use-butch-harmons-keys-to-simplify-bunker-shots)
1. [Scott Mahlberg | Taking Too Much Sand in the Bunker (video) | 2014](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xpMZo-fqV1E)
1. [Kerrod Gray Golf | Do This to Get Out of The Bunker Every time! | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WRGY--4ITUM)
1. [Gravity Golf | Sand shots made easy using gravity (video) | 2018](https://gravitygolf.com/sand-shots-made-easy-using-gravity-golf/)
1. [WhyGolf | How to Master the Bunker Shot | Bunker Mate | 2022](https://whygolf.com/blogs/whysguyscorner/how-to-hit-a-bunker-shot)
1. [Greg Norman | FOUR 'MUSTS' IN BUNKERS | c.2017](https://shark.com/the-shark/golf-tips/lesson-57/)
1. Michael Hamilton Golf | The Bunker Series | 2018
   * [Bunker: Addressing the ball](https://michaelhamiltongolf.com/bunker-address/)
   * [Bunker: The club](http://michaelhamiltongolf.com/bunker-the-club/)
   * [Bunker: Ball striking](http://michaelhamiltongolf.com/bunker-ball-striking/)
   * [Bunker: Mid-long bunker shots](http://michaelhamiltongolf.com/bunker-mid-long-bunker-shot/)
1. [Golf Info Guide | Causes and Cures: Leaving Bunker Shots in the Sand – Golf Swing Tip | 2012](https://golf-info-guide.com/golf-tips/playing-conditions/causes-and-cures-leaving-bunker-shots-in-the-sand/)
1. [Golf Info Guide | Using Your Putter Effectively in a Bunker | 2018](https://golf-info-guide.com/golf-tips/bunker-golf-tips/using-your-putter-effectively-in-a-bunker/)


## Summary

- We must "engage the bounce" of the sand wedge, hence:
  * ball forward in stance
  * weight on front foot
  * shaft must be vertical at address (or even slightly tilted away from the target) when viewed from the front
  * open the club face
  * do not release wrists much at impact or follow through (i.e. keep the club face open)
- Since we are going to hit the sand and not the ball, this requires a lot of energy, hence:
  * take a good length backswing
  * thump the sand
  * make first contact with the sand about 2" behind the ball
  * take a shallow divit (about 1" deep)
  * continue with the follow through
  * rotate your body and finish facing the target
- So we have plenty of loft to get the ball out of the bunker:
  * use a wide stance which brings the body and hands low
  * make a fairly steep backswing by:
    + breaking the wrists (so the arms and shaft form an "L" shape
    + take the club up (not too far back behind your body)
- Also:
  * dig/grind your feet into the sand (for stability)
  * grip down the shaft for more control (and to compensate for
    'low hands' due to digging feet into sand plus the wide stance)
  * flare the front foot (to promote a follow through)
- My tip:
  * after observing the lie of the ball in the bunker, consider doing
    your practice swing *outside* the bunker to check where you first
    make contact with the ground


## How to practice bunker shots... without a bunker

1. Use a towel
   - [fitzygolfpro - Brian Fitzgerald | How To Practice Bunker Shots At Home (video) | 2020](https://youtu.be/DIkS-Br_LTc)
   - [fitzygolfpro - Brian Fitzgerald | How To Practice Bunker Shots Without Any Sand Using A Towel (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VZ8N_WCpIyY)
   - [Erika Larkin | HOW TO HIT A BUNKER SHOT AT HOME: Golf Hack! (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WMu6dOw0bS0)

1. [Golf.com - Kevin Sprecher | Home Practice: Bunker Splash (video) | 2020](https://golf.com/instruction/bunker-shots/home-practice-bunker-splash/)
   - Drill 1 (sand required, but no bunker needed):
     * Use a plastic, wooden or similar board
     * Put a small pile of sand onto the board
     * Erase the sand from the board with your bunker-swing
       + Feel the club thump the board
       + Turn body towards target during the finish
       + See sand splashed out of the so-called "bunker"
   - Drill 2 (sand required, but no bunker needed):
     * As for drill 1, but:
       + place a ball on the pile of sand
       + swing as before
     * [You may require a net or limited flight (foam or hollow) practice ball if you are doing this at home]
   - Drill 3 (bunker *is* required):
     * As for drill 2, but
       + make a small pile of sand *in the bunker* 
       + place a ball on the pile of sand
       + swing as before

1. [The Art of Simple Golf - Alex Fortey | How To Practice Perfect Bunker Shots Without Needing A Sand Trap | 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X7JPVXGiPj0)
   - Acceleration drill 1:
     * Hit the tee
   - Acceleration drill 2:
     * Hit the tee out from under the ball
     * [You may require a net or limited flight (foam or hollow) practice ball if you are doing this at home]
   - Other bunker videos:
     * [The Art of Simple Golf - Alex Fortey | Bunker Distance Control Made Easy | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gHnqd42GEp8)
     * [The Art of Simple Golf - Alex Fortey | Playlist: How To Hit Bunker Shots (Easy, Simple And Best Results) | 2015-2021](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLuptRNMEA3RiaFiJd2zwl0yWlbbW2xrMW)

1. Purchase a *Bunker Board*
   - https://pelzgolf.com/product/bunker-board
   - [Dave Pelz Golf | Dave Pelz Bunker Board (video) | 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L9P_d8o3ip4)
   - [Dave Pelz Golf | Dave Pelz's Bunker Board (30 Seconds) (video) | 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gFMpHkpAXMA)
   - [The Hackers Paradise | Bunker Board forum discussion | 2015](https://www.thehackersparadise.com/forum/index.php?threads/bunker-board-from-dave-pelz-golf.78847/)

1. Purchase a *Pocket Bunker*
   - https://www.pocketbunker.com/
   - [Pocket Bunker | Pocket Bunker International Launch | 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=25pMnQ3dI1Q)
   - [MrShortGame Golf | The at Home Golf Bunker Training Aid - Pocket Bunker (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DOM3eXdphbY)
   - [Mike Sullivan | Pocket Bunker Review (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OndtaOwYevE)

1. Purchase a *Bunker Mate*
   - [WhyGolf | How to Master the Bunker Shot | Bunker Mate | 2022](https://whygolf.com/blogs/whysguyscorner/how-to-hit-a-bunker-shot)
   - [WhyGolf | Bunker Mate | 2022](https://whygolf.com/collections/training-aids/products/bunker-mate?_atid=47hhbN0y0xyTOYqrosgkfqXKVzjNOd)
   - [WhyGolf | Bunker Mate - Master Your Bunker Game (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lm2UqhVXHjg)


## Chatting with pros

1. [TaylorMade Golf | Bunker Technique with Tiger Woods & Jason Day | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nd00f4nq_ks)
1. [TaylorMade Golf | Tiger Woods, Rory McIlroy & Jason Day Short Game Session | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LsQgZzkpppw&t=12m35s)
   - 12m35s - 18m06s
   - Jason Day:
     * Get hands low (squat)
     * Take as little sand as possible
     * Hit as close as I can to the ball
     * Accelerate
   - Tiger Woods:
     * Hands "down and back"
     * Release / throw with right hand

## Trick / unexpected / pointless bunker shots

1. [PhilsDVDdotcom | Phil Mickelson's Two Ball Trick Shot | 2009](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kxyVbaqRxys)
1. [TaylorMade Golf | How Jon Rahm Hits a 4-IRON Out of a Bunker | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GW9dFmME8gs)
1. [GolfMagic - Ben Smith | GOLF RULES: CAN YOU USE THE BACK OF YOUR DRIVER TO CHUNK IT OUT OF THE BUNKER? | 2021](https://www.golfmagic.com/news/golf-rules-can-you-use-back-your-driver-chunk-it-out-bunker)
