Links_BallFlight.md, before:

# Ball Flight - fade/draw, slice/hook, etc.

## Theory

1. [WhysGuy | Ball Flight Laws | What Are They and Why Care? | 2022](https://whygolf.com/blogs/whysguyscorner/golf-ball-flight-laws)

1. [Dave Tutelman | The Nine Ball Flights | 2006](http://www.tutelman.com/golf/ballflight/ballflight.php)
   - [Image showing the 9 ball flights](http://www.tutelman.com/golf/ballflight/ballflight/ballflight2.gif)
   - [Great image showing the 9 ball flights](https://southamptongolfclub.com/wp-content/uploads/Ball-Flight.jpg) (excerpt from
     [Southampton Golf Club - Matthew | Hook Vs Slice In Golf – What’s The Difference And How To Fix Them | 2021](https://southamptongolfclub.com/hook-vs-slice-in-golf/))

1. [John Dunigan | The Ball Flight Laws (video) | 2009](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wnq6TiXw7wU)
   - Video of Ball Flight Laws using a club with a rod showing club-face direction and
     alignment-sticks showing path direction and target direction.
   - Uses the laws to discuss how to fix a slice, hook, etc.

1. [Golf Evolution | Ball Flight Laws from Golf Evolution (video) | 2010](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eEHiY5iv5u4)
   - Short demonstration of how the ball starts in the direction of the club face (not the club path)


## Practice, tips, fixes and shaping shots

1. [Ruthless Golf | Why Your Ball Isn't Going Where You Want | 2013](https://www.ruthlessgolf.com/2013/09/why-your-ball-isnt-going-where-you-want.html)
   - [Golf Tips Magazine - Joseph Mayo | Ballflight 101 (video) | 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wAIewIVTasI)
   - [Golf Tips Magazine - Joseph Mayo | The Truth About Slicing! (video) | 2014](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xtyiRYHROfk)

1. [Rick Shiels Golf | How to DRAW & FADE your golf driver (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4CAMWevKkBU)

1. [GolfPass -Devan Bonebrake | Working The Ball – The Brakedown | 2021](https://www.golfpass.com/watch/the-golf-fix/working-the-ball-the-brakedown)
   - Draw, fade, low and high shots

1. [GolfPass - Drake Dunaway | 6 golf tips to help golfers shape shots on command | 2022](https://www.golfpass.com/travel-advisor/articles/6-golf-tips-shape-shots-on-command)
   - Tip 1: Goldilocks driving drill by Clay Ballard
     * Deliberately hook (for right hander)
       + Line up your stance/body to the right of the target
       + Keep your spine tilted to the right (with your right shoulder lower than your left)
       + Keep your right elbow tucked into the body (and lower than left elbow)
       + He recommends that you snap your wrists during the release so that the **club face is turning over or rapidly closing
         during the swing**!.
         [Although I agree that this encourages a hook, I feel that you need incredible precision to do in any repeatable way.
         So in my view, the result is lack of control and repeatability. I feel you should "throw" the club at the ball in the
         usual way and just allow the forearms and hands to release naturally as they do for any other drive. Instead, I think
         that **at address you should close the club face** relative to the swing path (then re-grip).]
       + [If I wanted to deliberately hit a hook, his shot is not the one I would aspire to! I think it should be a higher
         shot. Perhaps if he teed the ball higher and didn't snap his wrists he wouldn't have thinned it?]
     * Deliberately slice (for right hander)
       + Line up your stance/body to the left of the target
       + Right arm higher than left arm
       + He recommends that you do not release your wrists as much as usual so that the **club face is opening during the swing**!
         [Although I agree that this encourages a slice, I feel that you need good precision to do in any repeatable way.
         So in my view, the result is lack of control and repeatability. I feel you should "throw" the club at the ball in the
         usual way and just allow the forearms and hands to release naturally as they do for any other drive. Instead, I think
         that **at address you should open the club face** relative to the swing path (then re-grip).]
   - Tip 2: Working the ball – draws and fades by Devan Bonebrake
     * [I really like almost everything Devan says except a couple of times he says to point
       your club face at the target when setting up for a draw or fade. Assuming you want your
       ball to finish on the target line, his advice goes against the new ball flight laws
       above. His advice would start the ball at the target then draw or fade away from the
       target line!]
     * Setup for a draw:
       + Ball position slightly back compared to a standard drive (i.e. only slightly forward)
       + Close your stance
       + Close your shoulders with spine tilted to the right
       + Light grip pressure
     * Beginner level draw:
       + Take your normal setup
       + Leave the face pointing at target but drop trail foot back and your lead foot forward
       + Get your shoulders to match your feet
       + Swing along the foot line with face slightly close relative to the path
     * Intermediate level draw:
       + Encourage more turn in the backswing and less turn during the follow through
         - Normal setup
         - Flare the trail foot open and the lead foot closed or square to the swing path
         - Do a full turn during the backswing
         - During the downswing, arms/hands take over while the body is fairly passive
     * Advanced level draw:
       + Normal setup
       + Normal backswing
       + During the downswing:
         - bring the club more from the inside
         - bow the wrist (in the direction which closes the club face)
         - [for me, this downswing has too many variables!]
     * Key points for a draw:
       + Ensure you hit the ball in the center of the club face, or a little towards the toe
       + Ensure you have a full turn on your backswing; don't rush the transition
     * Draw drill #1 (backswing drill):
       + Normal posture at address
       + Hold shaft with your right hand near the club head with handle near the ground
       + Place left arm horizonally in front of you
       + Do a backswing with your right arm
       + During downswing:
         - keep your shoulders closed
         - let your right elbow lead your hand (which means it is near your body)
         - "swoosh" the club through
         - right arm remains horizontally in front of you
         - chest stays passive (you don't want your whole body to rotate)
         - continue your follow through
     * Draw drill #2 (follow through drill):
       + Normal posture at address
       + Hold shaft with your left hand near the club head with handle near the ground
       + Place right arm vertically by your side
       + Do a backswing with your left arm
       + During downswing:
         - start by moving the club head (near your hand) towards the ball
         - more arm/hand action than a normal shot
         - rotate and punch the sky (i.e. finish high)
     * Attempt to do a real draw-swing (and hit a ball) by putting those 2 drills together
     * Beginner level fade:
       + Tee the ball slightly lower than a standard drive
       + Ball position further forward than a standard drive (to encourage an out-to-in swing path at impact)
       + Lead foot flared; trail foot closed
       + Club face open to the swing path
     * Advanced level fade:
       + Ball position further forward than a standard drive (to encourage an out-to-in swing path at impact)
       + Lead foot flared
       + At address, the chest is more open/left
       + During the down swing, the club is trailing the body a little more
       + During the down swing, feel like the body is opening up
     * Important points for a fade:
       + Path is out-to-in
       + Club face open to the swing path

Commit message:

Rearrange, add & fix links in ball flight file. Fix opening sentence in glossary file.

Links_BallFlight.md, after:

# Ball Flight - fade/draw, slice/hook, etc.

To understand some of the discussions below, you may need to be familiar to terms like draw, hook,
fade, slice, open clubface and closed clubface. You can find the meaning of these terms in a
glossary. I have links to several glossaries [here](Links_Glossary.md)


## Theory

1. Golf Tips Magazine - Joseph Mayo
   - Short and simple explanations about club-face and club-path direction
   - [Ballflight 101 (video) | 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wAIewIVTasI)
   - [The Truth About Slicing! (video) | 2014](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xtyiRYHROfk)

1. [DCGC Pro shop TV - Barry Austin | Basic ball flight laws (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6DHx3ySiprg)
   - Video of Ball Flight Laws using coloured lines on a table top to show club-face and club-path direction

1. [John Dunigan | The Ball Flight Laws (video) | 2009](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wnq6TiXw7wU)
   - Video of Ball Flight Laws using a club with a rod showing club-face direction and
     alignment-sticks showing path direction and target direction.
   - Uses the laws to discuss how to fix a slice, hook, etc.

1. [Great image showing the 9 ball flights](https://southamptongolfclub.com/wp-content/uploads/Ball-Flight.jpg) (excerpt from
   [Southampton Golf Club - Matthew | Hook Vs Slice In Golf – What’s The Difference And How To Fix Them | 2021](https://southamptongolfclub.com/hook-vs-slice-in-golf/))

1. [WhysGuy | Ball Flight Laws | What Are They and Why Care? | 2022](https://whygolf.com/blogs/whysguyscorner/golf-ball-flight-laws)

1. [Dave Tutelman | The Nine Ball Flights | 2006](http://www.tutelman.com/golf/ballflight/ballflight.php)
   - [Image showing the 9 ball flights](http://www.tutelman.com/golf/ballflight/ballflight/ballflight2.gif)

1. [Golf Evolution | Ball Flight Laws from Golf Evolution (video) | 2010](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eEHiY5iv5u4)
   - Short demonstration of how the ball starts in the direction of the club face (not the club path)


## Practice, tips, fixes and shaping shots

1. [Rick Shiels Golf | How to DRAW & FADE your golf driver (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4CAMWevKkBU)

1. [GolfPass -Devan Bonebrake | Working The Ball – The Brakedown | 2021](https://www.golfpass.com/watch/the-golf-fix/working-the-ball-the-brakedown)
   - Draw, fade, low and high shots

1. [GolfPass - Drake Dunaway | 6 golf tips to help golfers shape shots on command | 2022](https://www.golfpass.com/travel-advisor/articles/6-golf-tips-shape-shots-on-command)
   - Tip 1: Goldilocks driving drill by Clay Ballard
     * Deliberately hook (for right hander)
       + Line up your stance/body to the right of the target
       + Keep your spine tilted to the right (with your right shoulder lower than your left)
       + Keep your right elbow tucked into the body (and lower than left elbow)
       + He recommends that you snap your wrists during the release so that the **club face is turning over or rapidly closing
         during the swing**!.
         [Although I agree that this encourages a hook, I feel that you need incredible precision to do in any repeatable way.
         So in my view, the result is lack of control and repeatability. I feel you should "throw" the club at the ball in the
         usual way and just allow the forearms and hands to release naturally as they do for any other drive. Instead, I think
         that **at address you should close the club face** relative to the swing path (then re-grip).]
       + [If I wanted to deliberately hit a hook, his shot is not the one I would aspire to! I think it should be a higher
         shot. Perhaps if he teed the ball higher and didn't snap his wrists he wouldn't have thinned it?]
     * Deliberately slice (for right hander)
       + Line up your stance/body to the left of the target
       + Right arm higher than left arm
       + He recommends that you do not release your wrists as much as usual so that the **club face is opening during the swing**!
         [Although I agree that this encourages a slice, I feel that you need good precision to do in any repeatable way.
         So in my view, the result is lack of control and repeatability. I feel you should "throw" the club at the ball in the
         usual way and just allow the forearms and hands to release naturally as they do for any other drive. Instead, I think
         that **at address you should open the club face** relative to the swing path (then re-grip).]
   - Tip 2: Working the ball – draws and fades by Devan Bonebrake
     * [I really like almost everything Devan says except a couple of times he says to point
       your club face at the target when setting up for a draw or fade. Assuming you want your
       ball to finish on the target line, his advice goes against the new ball flight laws
       above. His advice would start the ball at the target then draw or fade away from the
       target line!]
     * Setup for a draw:
       + Ball position slightly back compared to a standard drive (i.e. only slightly forward)
       + Close your stance
       + Close your shoulders with spine tilted to the right
       + Light grip pressure
     * Beginner level draw:
       + Take your normal setup
       + Leave the face pointing at target but drop trail foot back and your lead foot forward
       + Get your shoulders to match your feet
       + Swing along the foot line with face slightly close relative to the path
     * Intermediate level draw:
       + Encourage more turn in the backswing and less turn during the follow through
         - Normal setup
         - Flare the trail foot open and the lead foot closed or square to the swing path
         - Do a full turn during the backswing
         - During the downswing, arms/hands take over while the body is fairly passive
     * Advanced level draw:
       + Normal setup
       + Normal backswing
       + During the downswing:
         - bring the club more from the inside
         - bow the wrist (in the direction which closes the club face)
         - [for me, this downswing has too many variables!]
     * Key points for a draw:
       + Ensure you hit the ball in the center of the club face, or a little towards the toe
       + Ensure you have a full turn on your backswing; don't rush the transition
     * Draw drill #1 (backswing drill):
       + Normal posture at address
       + Hold shaft with your right hand near the club head with handle near the ground
       + Place left arm horizonally in front of you
       + Do a backswing with your right arm
       + During downswing:
         - keep your shoulders closed
         - let your right elbow lead your hand (which means it is near your body)
         - "swoosh" the club through
         - right arm remains horizontally in front of you
         - chest stays passive (you don't want your whole body to rotate)
         - continue your follow through
     * Draw drill #2 (follow through drill):
       + Normal posture at address
       + Hold shaft with your left hand near the club head with handle near the ground
       + Place right arm vertically by your side
       + Do a backswing with your left arm
       + During downswing:
         - start by moving the club head (near your hand) towards the ball
         - more arm/hand action than a normal shot
         - rotate and punch the sky (i.e. finish high)
     * Attempt to do a real draw-swing (and hit a ball) by putting those 2 drills together
     * Beginner level fade:
       + Tee the ball slightly lower than a standard drive
       + Ball position further forward than a standard drive (to encourage an out-to-in swing path at impact)
       + Lead foot flared; trail foot closed
       + Club face open to the swing path
     * Advanced level fade:
       + Ball position further forward than a standard drive (to encourage an out-to-in swing path at impact)
       + Lead foot flared
       + At address, the chest is more open/left
       + During the down swing, the club is trailing the body a little more
       + During the down swing, feel like the body is opening up
     * Important points for a fade:
       + Path is out-to-in
       + Club face open to the swing path
