Links_PorzakGolf.md, before:

# Porzak Golf

## Putting

1. [Porzak Golf | Putting Tips and Lessons (playlist) | 2020-2024](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLmQeGFuasi12FPRTqeXq48psdxpB-I-HJ)

1. [Adam Porzak | The LAST Putting Lesson You Will EVER Need || 7 TIPS (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oUBLtw6Ft2I)
   1. Hips above ankles
   2. Arms in front of body
      - Rotate-tuck-tilt setup (without a club)
      - Putter is an extension of the forearms
      - Tuck: elbows about half way between sternum and the seam on side of shirt
      - Tilt: Step forward over the balls of feet to tilt until putter hits the ground
   3. Eyes above the ball
   4. Hands under shoulders
   5. Shoulders must be square (i.e. parallel to ball-to-target line) even if stance is open
   6. Ball position 1 inch ahead of centre
   7. Small deloft by doing a forward shaft lean (by 1 inch at the top of the handle)
      - Hence butt of club is above the ball
      - No hinging of the wrist
   8. He doesn't mind:
      - open stance
      - various stance widths (but prefers distance between outside of feet to be the same as outside of shoulders)

1. [Adam Porzak | How To Putt The Ball Straight EVERY TIME || 5 Putting TIPS (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aYRbMLQVdZo)
   - Session goals: Establish ball position | Build a putting routine | Shoulder alignment
   - If ball is left of the ideal position, you are likely to putt left
   - If the shoulders are open, you are likely to putt left (for a right handed player)
   - Setup routine: Feet together | Ball position on lead big toe | Spread feet with even weight distribution | Handle slightly pressed
   - Don't look for a stroke fault until after you have looked for a setup fault

1. [Adam Porzak | If You Need To Improve Your Putting, WATCH THIS! (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5FIVqAwRLjQ)
   - Content: Session goals | SPNMW | Shoulder Rock | Grip Pressure |
     Core Putting | Practice Routine | Lead Wrist | The Finish |
     Overview | Master Class
   - [Straight Putt No Matter What (SPNMW)](https://porzakgolf.myshopify.com/collections/training-aids-1/products/copy-of-straight-putt-no-matter-what)
   - Putting checkpoints: Read greens | Alignment | Roll on line
   - How to stay connected: Core tight | Elbows in | Rock shoulders
   - Shoulder rock drill: Putt with an alignment stick (or club) underneath your arms (and above your elbows)
   - Grip Pressure: 5/10
   - Practice Routine: Pick random putts | Focus on path and alignment |
     10-15 minutes with SPNMW | Simulate real putts
   - Lead Wrist: The putter shaft should point to the left armpit at the point of impact (not at the belly button)
   - The Finish: Short follow through (see 3:1 recommendation below) | Hold the finish

1. [Adam Porzak | Putting Fundamentals for Beginners and Beyond (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-FJfVmCtEoc)
   - Excerpts from the 3 videos above

1. [Mike Pitt | BEST Putting Drills that will LOWER Your Score || 3 Drills (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=etqmi31cpEY)
   - Drill 1: Around the world (after finding the straight uphill putt)
   - Drill 2: Hit long putts (over 15 feet / 5m) to within 3 feet (1m) of the hole
     * For long putts, backswing length to follow through length should be about 3:1 (and it feels like it has been hit softly)
   - Drill 3: Hit 3 consecutive long putts to 3 different holes to within 1 yard (1m). [You can use a larger number than 3.]

1. [Adam Porzak with mentor Todd Sones | EVERYTHING You Need To Know To Become A GREAT Putter (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eSMSss0w_rw)
   - Content: Introduction | Rotate,Tuck,Tilt | Connection Points |
     Proper Grip | Bend At The Hips | Eye Line | Putting Arc |
     Arm Line | Shoulder Alignment | Leg Alignment | Forward Press |
     Rhythm  | Putting In The Zone | Master Class
   - **Think during the set up** so you don't have to think during the stroke
   - Book: "In The Zone: Learn to Putt Like a Champion" by Todd Sones, Matthew Rudy, 2019


## Greenside bunker shots

1. [Adam Porzak | EASIEST Way To Improve Your BUNKER Game || 5 Tips (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OG-IIE9mSbo)
   - Session goals: Formula for shot distance | Hitting through the sand | Bunker alignment
   - Formula for shot distance:
     * Swing for a 40 foot shot from the bunker is the same speed as a 40 yard shot from the fairway
     * Don't make contact with the ball
     * Speed is your friend
   - Low point is after the golf ball
     * Hit the imaginary golf ball underneath the golf ball
     * Drill: "throw" sand with your sand wedge;
       get the feeling of the club going down and through the sand;
       he draws a line where the ball should be (so his divot starts
       before the line and finishes after the line)
   - Create leverage: Hands low | Angle is created between forearm and shaft |
     Helps the wrists hinge naturally | During backswing left elbow is straight
     and left shoulder turns
   - Let the club (loft) do the work
     * Let the club head drop (slide) underneath the ball
     * Knees move towards the target as the body rotates
   - Aim point is towards your target (even when the club face is open)
1. [Adam Porzak | The Most Effective Bunker Lesson On Youtube! (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tGZoNn3whFY)
1. [Adam Porzak | NEVER Fear Bunkers Ever Again! (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DMrVwKRaNAg)

Commit message:

Add Porzak Golf chipping/pitching links

Links_PorzakGolf.md, after:

# Porzak Golf

## Putting

1. [Adam Porzak | The LAST Putting Lesson You Will EVER Need || 7 TIPS (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oUBLtw6Ft2I)
   1. Hips above ankles
   2. Arms in front of body
      - Rotate-tuck-tilt setup (without a club)
      - Putter is an extension of the forearms
      - Tuck: elbows about half way between sternum and the seam on side of shirt
      - Tilt: Step forward over the balls of feet to tilt until putter hits the ground
   3. Eyes above the ball
   4. Hands under shoulders
   5. Shoulders must be square (i.e. parallel to ball-to-target line) even if stance is open
   6. Ball position 1 inch ahead of centre
   7. Small deloft by doing a forward shaft lean (by 1 inch at the top of the handle)
      - Hence butt of club is above the ball
      - No hinging of the wrist
   8. He doesn't mind:
      - open stance
      - various stance widths (but prefers distance between outside of feet to be the same as outside of shoulders)

1. [Adam Porzak | How To Putt The Ball Straight EVERY TIME || 5 Putting TIPS (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aYRbMLQVdZo)
   - Session goals: Establish ball position | Build a putting routine | Shoulder alignment
   - If ball is left of the ideal position, you are likely to putt left
   - If the shoulders are open, you are likely to putt left (for a right handed player)
   - Setup routine: Feet together | Ball position on lead big toe | Spread feet with even weight distribution | Handle slightly pressed
   - Don't look for a stroke fault until after you have looked for a setup fault

1. [Adam Porzak | If You Need To Improve Your Putting, WATCH THIS! (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5FIVqAwRLjQ)
   - Content: Session goals | SPNMW | Shoulder Rock | Grip Pressure |
     Core Putting | Practice Routine | Lead Wrist | The Finish |
     Overview | Master Class
   - [Straight Putt No Matter What (SPNMW)](https://porzakgolf.myshopify.com/collections/training-aids-1/products/copy-of-straight-putt-no-matter-what)
   - Putting checkpoints: Read greens | Alignment | Roll on line
   - How to stay connected: Core tight | Elbows in | Rock shoulders
   - Shoulder rock drill: Putt with an alignment stick (or club) underneath your arms (and above your elbows)
   - Grip Pressure: 5/10
   - Practice Routine: Pick random putts | Focus on path and alignment |
     10-15 minutes with SPNMW | Simulate real putts
   - Lead Wrist: The putter shaft should point to the left armpit at the point of impact (not at the belly button)
   - The Finish: Short follow through (see 3:1 recommendation below) | Hold the finish

1. [Adam Porzak | Putting Fundamentals for Beginners and Beyond (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-FJfVmCtEoc)
   - Excerpts from the 3 videos above

1. [Mike Pitt | BEST Putting Drills that will LOWER Your Score || 3 Drills (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=etqmi31cpEY)
   - Drill 1: Around the world (after finding the straight uphill putt)
   - Drill 2: Hit long putts (over 15 feet / 5m) to within 3 feet (1m) of the hole
     * For long putts, backswing length to follow through length should be about 3:1 (and it feels like it has been hit softly)
   - Drill 3: Hit 3 consecutive long putts to 3 different holes to within 1 yard (1m). [You can use a larger number than 3.]

1. [Adam Porzak with mentor Todd Sones | EVERYTHING You Need To Know To Become A GREAT Putter (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eSMSss0w_rw)
   - Content: Introduction | Rotate,Tuck,Tilt | Connection Points |
     Proper Grip | Bend At The Hips | Eye Line | Putting Arc |
     Arm Line | Shoulder Alignment | Leg Alignment | Forward Press |
     Rhythm  | Putting In The Zone | Master Class
   - **Think during the set up** so you don't have to think during the stroke
   - Book: "In The Zone: Learn to Putt Like a Champion" by Todd Sones, Matthew Rudy, 2019

1. [Porzak Golf | Putting Tips and Lessons (playlist) | 2020-2024](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLmQeGFuasi12FPRTqeXq48psdxpB-I-HJ)


## Greenside bunker shots

1. [Adam Porzak | EASIEST Way To Improve Your BUNKER Game || 5 Tips (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OG-IIE9mSbo)
   - Session goals: Formula for shot distance | Hitting through the sand | Bunker alignment
   - Formula for shot distance:
     * Swing for a 40 foot shot from the bunker is the same speed as a 40 yard shot from the fairway
     * Don't make contact with the ball
     * Speed is your friend
   - Low point is after the golf ball
     * Hit the imaginary golf ball underneath the golf ball
     * Drill: "throw" sand with your sand wedge;
       get the feeling of the club going down and through the sand;
       he draws a line where the ball should be (so his divot starts
       before the line and finishes after the line)
   - Create leverage: Hands low | Angle is created between forearm and shaft |
     Helps the wrists hinge naturally | During backswing left elbow is straight
     and left shoulder turns
   - Let the club (loft) do the work
     * Let the club head drop (slide) underneath the ball
     * Knees move towards the target as the body rotates
   - Aim point is towards your target (even when the club face is open)
1. [Adam Porzak | The Most Effective Bunker Lesson On Youtube! (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tGZoNn3whFY)
1. [Adam Porzak | NEVER Fear Bunkers Ever Again! (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DMrVwKRaNAg)


## Chipping and pitching

1. [Adam Porzak | The EASIEST Shot To Hit In Golf (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tHAUQkbBzoU)
1. [Adam Porzak | How To Hit The Bump And Run Chip Shot || 5 Easy Tips (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OlQMjOnFIRk)
1. [Adam Porzak | Top 5 Tips On EFFORTLESS Chipping (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oFxxmXMNA3Q)
1. [Adam Porzak with mentor Todd Sones | This SHORT GAME Lesson Will Change Your Game FOREVER! || Part 1 (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P_V_Jr29tlc)
1. [Adam Porzak with mentor Todd Sones | Chipping vs Pitching: What's the Difference? (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kSHXGUu2eKc)

1. [Short Game Lessons (playlist) | 2020-2024](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLmQeGFuasi13aFOqLu7Y9D--D-nQ_DRPP)
1. [Wedge Shot Lessons (playlist) | 2020-2024](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLmQeGFuasi10vBDBryTJu6Q-6v1mwClLa)
