Links_PitchChip2.md, before:

# Pitching and chipping #2 - more links

## Chip shots

1. Giles Gill Golf
   - :thumbsup: [Why Your Chipping SUCKS & How To Fix It (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hrAV6bq6ZxU)
     * Do not be afraid of making contact with the ground
       + Brush the ground on every practice swing
     * Do not allow the clubhead to move "behind the hands" (moving to the "inside") in the backswing
       + Drill
     * Let your head move forward (towards the target) during the backswing and keep it there during the down swing and follow through
       + Swing thought
     * Let your chest keep turning during the down swing and follow through
       + Drill: Towel under the arms
       + Swing thought

   - [What Nobody Tells You About Chipping & Pitching (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QjtkuOffDCo)
     * Chunk = Fat shot
     * "Pull upward" on the handle as you approach impact (and continue after impact)
     * How? The butt of the handle should get closer to the belt buckle during the downswing and follow through
       + [His finish position looks like T-Rex!]
     * Keep arms relaxed; at address, move the hands up to the belt buckle a couple of times
     * [He has a slow smooth transition where the downswing appears to start due to gravity]

1. :thumbsup: [James Ridyard | Fix your Chipping YIPS by using your KNEES! (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TCoeM2HLVHw)
   - Consider setting the rhythm with a left foot "toe tap" during the take away
   - The knees drive the chipping motion
   - During the downswing and follow through:
     * the right knee rotates to finish alongside the left knee
     * the right heel moves up
     * the left knee straightens a little
   - As a result:
     * the hips and chest will rotate together (minimal "separation")
     * the less work you need to do with your arms

1. Zach Allen Golf
   - :thumbsup: [What Nobody Tells You About Chipping Onto the Green (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z8skX3ZoXh0)
     * Do you shift your weight when you chip? |
       Should your head stay still when you chip?
     * Answer: No, your head/weight should move forward before impact |
       Try a step drill |
       Consider tapping your left foot during the take away

   - [You've Been Chipping All Wrong... (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qWjadMbEa0)
     * Misconception #1: Your weight stays on the left side for the entire swing
     * Fix: Start with about 55% of your weight on your left side |
       Let your pressure move from side-to-side a little bit during the swing |
       Allow your lower body to move fluidly (it should not remain still like putting)
     * Misconception #2: Keep your head down
     * Fix: At release, your body should start to extend and turn | The hip pushes forward | The body moves upward
     * Misconception #3: Impact for chip shot and full swing are the same
     * Fix: When chipping, land the bounce of the clubhead 1 to 1.5 inches behind the ball 
     * He used the Acu-Strike Golf Mat

1. :thumbsup: [Andy Carter Golf | CHIPPING SWING PATH EXPLAINED | No more FAT or THIN Shots (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p6PpQqylC6I)
1. [US GOLF TV: Todd Kolb | 30 Years of My Best Chipping Advice in Just 5 Minutes (video) | 2025](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bSBd3R3Ce8g)


## Chip shots: New points

- Try not to move body/shoulders down too much [standing tall seems to help]
- Brush the ground a few times to find the low point
- Follow a good swing path (straight or out-to-in)
- Lift left toes on backswing (to promote fall left on downswing)
- Move right knee to touch left knee on downswing (to promote hip and chest turn on downswing and follow through)

Commit message:

Add more chipping links & comments

Links_PitchChip2.md, after:

# Pitching and chipping #2 - more links

## Chip shots

1. Giles Gill Golf
   - :thumbsup: [Why Your Chipping SUCKS & How To Fix It (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hrAV6bq6ZxU)
     * Do not be afraid of making contact with the ground
       + Brush the ground on every practice swing
     * Do not allow the clubhead to move "behind the hands" (moving to the "inside") in the backswing
       + Drill
     * Let your head move forward (towards the target) during the backswing and keep it there during the down swing and follow through
       + Swing thought
     * Let your chest keep turning during the down swing and follow through
       + Drill: Towel under the arms
       + Swing thought

   - [What Nobody Tells You About Chipping & Pitching (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QjtkuOffDCo)
     * Chunk = Fat shot
     * "Pull upward" on the handle as you approach impact (and continue after impact)
     * How? The butt of the handle should get closer to the belt buckle during the downswing and follow through
       + [His finish position looks like T-Rex!]
     * Keep arms relaxed; at address, move the hands up to the belt buckle a couple of times
     * [He has a slow smooth transition where the downswing appears to start due to gravity]

1. :thumbsup: [Fore Play Golf | Kevin Kisner Fixes Weekend Golfer's Chipping Game (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9E-gdx-o1sg)
   - The butt of your grip and the center of your chest have to move at the same rate all the time.
   - Keep your elbow tucked into your side to help with the movement of your chest and pelvis through the ball.
   - For longer chips: It's not how much faster you can swing, it's how much bigger you can turn it all together at the same rate.
   - Hit the ground under the ball. The wedge is designed to hit the ground.
   - Practice with one arm. It will help with body movement to get through the ball and make solid contact.

1. :thumbsup: [James Ridyard | Fix your Chipping YIPS by using your KNEES! (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TCoeM2HLVHw)
   - Consider setting the rhythm with a left foot "toe tap" during the take away
   - The knees drive the chipping motion
   - During the downswing and follow through:
     * the right knee rotates to finish alongside the left knee
     * the right heel moves up
     * the left knee straightens a little
   - As a result:
     * the hips and chest will rotate together (minimal "separation")
     * the less work you need to do with your arms

1. Zach Allen Golf
   - :thumbsup: [What Nobody Tells You About Chipping Onto the Green (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z8skX3ZoXh0)
     * Do you shift your weight when you chip? |
       Should your head stay still when you chip?
     * Answer: No, your head/weight should move forward before impact |
       Try a step drill |
       Consider tapping your left foot during the take away

   - [You've Been Chipping All Wrong... (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qWjadMbEa0)
     * Misconception #1: Your weight stays on the left side for the entire swing
     * Fix: Start with about 55% of your weight on your left side |
       Let your pressure move from side-to-side a little bit during the swing |
       Allow your lower body to move fluidly (it should not remain still like putting)
     * Misconception #2: Keep your head down
     * Fix: At release, your body should start to extend and turn | The hip pushes forward | The body moves upward
     * Misconception #3: Impact for chip shot and full swing are the same
     * Fix: When chipping, land the bounce of the clubhead 1 to 1.5 inches behind the ball 
     * He used the Acu-Strike Golf Mat

1. :thumbsup: [Andy Carter Golf | CHIPPING SWING PATH EXPLAINED | No more FAT or THIN Shots (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p6PpQqylC6I)
1. [US GOLF TV: Todd Kolb | 30 Years of My Best Chipping Advice in Just 5 Minutes (video) | 2025](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bSBd3R3Ce8g)
1. [Kellie Stenzel | 10 basic tips that can help golfers chip better than ever | 2021](https://golf.com/instruction/short-game/10-tips-golfer-chipping-better-than-ever/)


## Chip shots: New points

- The butt of your grip and the center of your chest have to move at the same rate all the time
- Keep your elbow tucked into your side
- Move right knee to touch left knee on downswing (to promote hip and chest turn on downswing and follow through)
- Brush the ground a few times to find the low point
- Follow a good swing path (straight or out-to-in); doing right-arm-only practice swings may help
- Lift left toes on backswing (to promote fall left on downswing)
- Try not to move body/shoulders down too much [standing tall seems to help]
