Links_VisionCorrectionAndGolf.md, before:

# Vision correction and golf

## The problem

When I got my latest pair of single vision lens glasses (not bifocal or multifocal/progressive) 
my distance vision in normal (non-golf) situations improved, however

- I was suddenly unable to align and sink putts (even from about 1 metre). After several weeks,
  the situation did not improve.
- I confirmed that when I take my putting stance with eyes above a horizontal line on the floor
  (simulating a straight line between a ball and a hole 2.5 metres away) the line appears to be
  curved.  With my glasses removed, the same line appears to be straight (but blurred due to my
  poor eyesight).
- The line on the floor appears to be straight if:
  1. I place the glasses near the tip of my nose, or
  1. I tilt the glasses frames forward so the arms are a couple of centimetres above my ears, or
  1. I bend my upper body and neck so that my face and lenses are roughly horizontal
- The new lenses have a higher refractive index than my old ones, hence are thiner
- The Optometrist Assistant was able to improve the situation slightly by tilting the
  top of the lenses further forward than they were originally


## Potential solutions

- Use one of the above options which makes the line on the floor appear to be straight
  (although I am not keen on any of them)
- Replace the lenses and/or frames so that the optical center of the lens is lower and
  the lenses are tilted further forward (although this may adversely affect vision in
  non-golf/non-putting situations)
- Consider using contact lenses for golf (but some people say the lenses can dry out
  before they complete 18 holes)
- Consider laser eye surgery


## Optical distortion and golf

1. [Progressive-Glasses.com: Michael Penczek | Why Do My Glasses Make Things Look Curved? | 2020](https://progressive-glasses.com/why-do-my-glasses-make-things-look-curved/)

1. [Specsavers | Why am I experiencing peripheral distortion when wearing my new glasses?](https://www.specsavers.com.au/help-and-faqs/why-am-i-experiencing-peripheral-distortion-when-wearing-my-new-glasses)

1. [GolfWRX forum | Is it harder to play golf with glasses? | 2019-2020](https://forums.golfwrx.com/topic/1675056-is-it-harder-to-play-golf-with-glasses/)

1. [The Scotsman: Martin Dempster | What Ewen Ferguson had to say on being dubbed 'knock-off Rickie Fowler' and contact lens issue | 2023](https://www.scotsman.com/sport/golf/what-ewen-ferguson-had-to-say-on-being-dubbed-knock-off-rickie-fowler-and-contact-lens-issue-4215246)


## Technical information

1. [All About Vision: Gary Heiting | How to read your eyeglasses prescription | 2019](https://www.allaboutvision.com/eyeglasses/eyeglass-prescription.htm)

1. [Vistar Eye Center | Types of Corrective Eye Surgery | 2015-2023](https://www.vistareye.com/types-of-corrective-eye-surgery/)

Commit message:

More info re glasses & contact lenses

Links_VisionCorrectionAndGolf.md, after:

# Vision correction and golf

## The problem

When I got my latest pair of single vision lens glasses (not bifocal or multifocal/progressive) 
my distance vision in normal (non-golf) situations improved, however

- I was suddenly unable to align and sink putts (even from about 1 metre). After several weeks,
  the situation did not improve.
- I confirmed that when I take my putting stance with eyes above a horizontal line on the floor
  (simulating a straight line between a ball and a hole 2.5 metres away) the line appears to be
  curved.  With my glasses removed, the same line appears to be straight (but blurred due to
  being nearsighted).
- The line on the floor appears to be straight if I *view it through the top third of the lenses*,
  by:
  1. Placing the glasses near the tip of my nose, or
  1. Tilting the glasses forward so the arms are a couple of centimetres above my ears, or
  1. Bending my upper body and neck so that my face and lenses are roughly horizontal
- The new lenses have a higher refractive index than my old ones, hence they are thiner
- The Optometrist Assistant was able to improve the situation slightly by tilting the
  top of the lenses further forward than they were originally


## Potential solutions

- Use one of the above options which makes the line on the floor appear to be straight
  (although I am not keen on any of them)
- Replace the lenses and/or frames so that the optical center of the lens is lower and
  the lenses are tilted further forward (although this may adversely affect vision in
  non-golf/non-putting situations)
- Consider using contact lenses for golf (but some people say the lenses can dry out
  before they complete 18 holes)
- Consider laser eye surgery


## Optical distortion and golf

1. [Progressive-Glasses.com: Michael Penczek | Why Do My Glasses Make Things Look Curved? | 2020](https://progressive-glasses.com/why-do-my-glasses-make-things-look-curved/)
   - Discusses the results of optical distortion
   - Discusses solutions including replacing glasses with contact lenses

1. [Specsavers | Why am I experiencing peripheral distortion when wearing my new glasses?](https://www.specsavers.com.au/help-and-faqs/why-am-i-experiencing-peripheral-distortion-when-wearing-my-new-glasses)
   - Discusses the causes of optical distortion
   - Discusses peripheral vision

1. [GolfWRX forum | Is it harder to play golf with glasses? | 2019-2020](https://forums.golfwrx.com/topic/1675056-is-it-harder-to-play-golf-with-glasses/)
   - Many people give their opinion about wearing glasses while playing golf
   - It appears to adversely affect putting more than the long game
   - A common solution is to wear contact lenses

1. [The Scotsman: Martin Dempster | What Ewen Ferguson had to say on being dubbed 'knock-off Rickie Fowler' and contact lens issue | 2023](https://www.scotsman.com/sport/golf/what-ewen-ferguson-had-to-say-on-being-dubbed-knock-off-rickie-fowler-and-contact-lens-issue-4215246)
   - Ewen Ferguson, a European Tour Pro who wears contact lenses
   - The difficulty that contact lenses can cause

1. Tour Pros who wear (or have worn) glasses or contact lenses
   - [Tiger Woods](https://www.contactsamerica.com/vision/tiger-woods-relief-eyeglasses-contact-lenses-lasik-surgery/) |
     [Lydia Ko](https://www.nbcsports.com/golf/news/article-golf-central-blog-ko-sees-world-differently-after-ditching-glasses) |
     [Rickie Fowler](https://golf.com/news/rickie-fowler-trouble-seeing-objects-150-yards/) |
     [Phil Mickelson](https://thesportsdaily.com/news/famous-athletes-who-wear-contact-lenses-and-glasses/)


## Technical information

1. [All About Vision: Gary Heiting | How to read your eyeglasses prescription | 2019](https://www.allaboutvision.com/eyeglasses/eyeglass-prescription.htm)

1. [Vistar Eye Center | Types of Corrective Eye Surgery | 2015-2023](https://www.vistareye.com/types-of-corrective-eye-surgery/)
