Links_RulesOfGolf.md, before:

# Rules of Golf


## R&A Championships Limited / St Andrews

1. [R&A | The Rules of Golf | c.2019](https://www.randa.org/en/rog/the-rules-of-golf)
   - The Rules of Golf content is intended for those who administer the game
   - [Definitions](https://www.randa.org/rog/definitions)

1. [R&A | The Player's Edition of the Rules of Golf | c.2019](https://www.randa.org/rog/players-edition)
   - "The Player's Edition of the Rules of Golf is intended for you, the
     golfer. It contains the Rules situations that occur most commonly
     on the course and is an abridged version of the full Rules. Although
     its text is edited, it gives you the same answer that is in the full
     Rules of Golf and so it is a functioning Rule book."
   - [Definitions](https://www.randa.org/rog/definitions?definitionsEdition=PlayersEdition)

1. [R&A | 16 Relief from Abnormal Course Conditions (Including Immovable Obstructions), Dangerous Animal Condition, Embedded Ball | c.2019](https://www.randa.org/rog/players-edition/rule-16)
   - Free drop / free relief 
   - 16.1 Abnormal Course Conditions (Including Immovable Obstructions)
   - 16.3 Embedded Ball

1. [R&A | 18 Stroke-and-Distance Relief, Ball Lost or Out of Bounds, Provisional Ball | c.2019](https://www.randa.org/rog/the-rules-of-golf/rule-18)
  - 18.2 Ball Lost or Out of Bounds: Stroke-and-Distance Relief Must Be Taken
  - 18.3 Provisional Ball

1. [R&A | 19 Unplayable Ball | c.2019](https://www.randa.org/rog/players-edition/rule-19)

1. [R&A | 8E Special or Required Relief Procedures | c.2019](https://www.randa.org/rog/committee-procedures/8e)
   - E-2 Cleaning Ball
   - E-3 Preferred Lies

1. [R&A | Rules Quiz | c.2019-2022](https://www.randa.org/quiz)


## United States Golf Association (USGA)

1. [Golf's New Rules: Major Changes](https://www.usga.org/content/usga/home-page/rules-hub/rules-modernization/major-changes/major-changes.html)
   - The main changes to the Rules of Golf that took effect in 2019
1. [Rules hub](https://www.usga.org/content/usga/home-page/rules-hub.html)
1. [Rules of Golf Explained (2023) (playlist)](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLnU5qUEfww3f5x5gRldQB9yWr5YdBwWwV)
1. [Rules of Golf Shorts (playlist)](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLnU5qUEfww3dYQwcnZ5qoGAlwzGRtghdA)


## Golf Australia

1. [Golf Australia | Rules of Golf | c.2022](https://www.golf.org.au/rulesofgolf/)
   - Resources

1. [Golf Australia | Quick guide to the rules of golf | c.2022](https://www.golf.org.au/rulesquickguide/)
   - A simple explanation of common Rules situations

1. [Golf Australia | The basics of golf | c.2022](https://www.golf.org.au/thebasicsofgolf/)
   - Equipment
   - *Rules basics*
   - Swing basics
   - Definitions
   - Scoring & Competitions


## Other

1. EXPERT GOLF
   - [NEW GOLF RULES 2019 | The 20 Most Important CHANGES (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=chPOtfLUHC0)
     * Excellent brief coverage of the major rule changes which occurred in 2019
   - [Rules (playlist) | 2018-2021](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLYJfdVIfdyhwGXuZUFbbJN34JPThRrJ7n)

1. [LiveAbout | Golf Rules FAQ | c.2018-2019](https://www.liveabout.com/golf-rules-faq-1565966)
   - [LiveAbout | Understanding 'Preferred Lies' (Lift, Clean and Place) | 2019](https://www.liveabout.com/preferred-lies-1560959)
   - [LiveAbout | Putting Across Sprinkler Heads in Golf: Free Relief? | 2019](https://www.liveabout.com/putt-from-off-green-with-obstacles-1561300)

1. Golf Monthly
   - [Rules Of Golf Advice (playlist) | 2014-2024](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLl3504ZoW2FNNcmaEZ8Hn7Imk2kD7WYwk)
     * Beware: Some of the rules in the older videos may be out of date
     * E.g. 6 Most Important New Rules: 2019 Golf Rules | What To Do When You LOSE YOUR GOLF BALL |
       5 golf rules mistakes that WILL cost you a penalty shot | Dos & Don'ts In Bunkers |
       Building A Stance In A Bunker | Water Hazard Relief Options
   - [Golf Monthly: Videos](https://www.youtube.com/@GolfMonthly/videos)
     * Scroll down a few years of videos then search on the page for "rule"
       or "quiz" or "question"
   - [Neil Tappin & Jeremy Ellwood | 7 RULES (EVEN EXPERIENCED) GOLFERS FIND CONFUSING! (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NsGrA5kTpW0)
   - [Neil Tappin & Jeremy Ellwood | 7 SURPRISING GOLF RULES THAT COULD CATCH YOU OUT! (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UNJy5xosxDk)
   - [Neil Tappin & Jeremy Ellwood | 8 RULES GOLFERS BREAK... WITHOUT REALISING!! (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iAioXOIqMFw)

1. [Golf: Rules Guy](https://golf.com/writers/rules-guy-2/)
   - Question & Answer format

Commit message:

Add rules links from FSGA

Links_RulesOfGolf.md, after:

# Rules of Golf

*Beware: There were major changes to the rules of golf in 2019.
Take care with any resources prior to this date.*


## R&A Championships Limited / St Andrews

1. [R&A | The Rules of Golf | c.2019](https://www.randa.org/en/rog/the-rules-of-golf)
   - The Rules of Golf content is intended for those who administer the game
   - [Definitions](https://www.randa.org/rog/definitions)

1. [R&A | The Player's Edition of the Rules of Golf | c.2019](https://www.randa.org/rog/players-edition)
   - "The Player's Edition of the Rules of Golf is intended for you, the
     golfer. It contains the Rules situations that occur most commonly
     on the course and is an abridged version of the full Rules. Although
     its text is edited, it gives you the same answer that is in the full
     Rules of Golf and so it is a functioning Rule book."
   - [Definitions](https://www.randa.org/rog/definitions?definitionsEdition=PlayersEdition)

1. [R&A | 16 Relief from Abnormal Course Conditions (Including Immovable Obstructions), Dangerous Animal Condition, Embedded Ball | c.2019](https://www.randa.org/rog/players-edition/rule-16)
   - Free drop / free relief 
   - 16.1 Abnormal Course Conditions (Including Immovable Obstructions)
   - 16.3 Embedded Ball

1. [R&A | 18 Stroke-and-Distance Relief, Ball Lost or Out of Bounds, Provisional Ball | c.2019](https://www.randa.org/rog/the-rules-of-golf/rule-18)
  - 18.2 Ball Lost or Out of Bounds: Stroke-and-Distance Relief Must Be Taken
  - 18.3 Provisional Ball

1. [R&A | 19 Unplayable Ball | c.2019](https://www.randa.org/rog/players-edition/rule-19)

1. [R&A | 8E Special or Required Relief Procedures | c.2019](https://www.randa.org/rog/committee-procedures/8e)
   - E-2 Cleaning Ball
   - E-3 Preferred Lies

1. [R&A | Rules Quiz | c.2019-2022](https://www.randa.org/quiz)


## United States Golf Association (USGA)

1. [Golf's New Rules: Major Changes](https://www.usga.org/content/usga/home-page/rules-hub/rules-modernization/major-changes/major-changes.html)
   - The main changes to the Rules of Golf that took effect in 2019
1. [Rules poster: 15 Rules Every Golfer Should Know (PDF) | 2023](https://www.usga.org/content/dam/usga/pdf/2023/rules/2023RulesPoster.pdf)
   - Includes minor changes to the Rules of Golf that took effect in 2023
1. [Rules hub](https://www.usga.org/content/usga/home-page/rules-hub.html)
1. [Rules of Golf Explained (2023) (playlist)](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLnU5qUEfww3f5x5gRldQB9yWr5YdBwWwV)
1. [Rules of Golf Shorts (playlist)](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLnU5qUEfww3dYQwcnZ5qoGAlwzGRtghdA)


## Florida State Golf Association (FSGA)

1. [Rules of Golf - What Can I Move? | 2019](https://www.fsga.org/News/Details/1763)
   - Excellent summary
   - Loose impediments may be moved anywhere on the course including bunkers...
   - ...you may have noticed that sand is not a loose impediment
1. [New Rules You Should Know | c.2019](https://www.fsga.org/sections/content/New-Rules-You-Should-Know/944)
1. [Summary Chart: The Major Changes in the Rules of Golf for 2019 (PDF)](https://www.usga.org/content/dam/usga/images/rules/rules-modernization/New-Rules/summary-of-main/Summary%20of%20Main%20Changes_2019%20Rules%20of%20Golf_FINAL.pdf)


## Golf Australia

1. [Golf Australia | Rules of Golf | c.2022](https://www.golf.org.au/rulesofgolf/)
   - Resources

1. [Golf Australia | Quick guide to the rules of golf | c.2022](https://www.golf.org.au/rulesquickguide/)
   - A simple explanation of common Rules situations

1. [Golf Australia | The basics of golf | c.2022](https://www.golf.org.au/thebasicsofgolf/)
   - Equipment
   - *Rules basics*
   - Swing basics
   - Definitions
   - Scoring & Competitions


## Other

1. EXPERT GOLF
   - [NEW GOLF RULES 2019 | The 20 Most Important CHANGES (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=chPOtfLUHC0)
     * Excellent brief coverage of the major rule changes which occurred in 2019
   - [Rules (playlist) | 2018-2021](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLYJfdVIfdyhwGXuZUFbbJN34JPThRrJ7n)

1. [LiveAbout | Golf Rules FAQ | c.2018-2019](https://www.liveabout.com/golf-rules-faq-1565966)
   - [LiveAbout | Understanding 'Preferred Lies' (Lift, Clean and Place) | 2019](https://www.liveabout.com/preferred-lies-1560959)
   - [LiveAbout | Putting Across Sprinkler Heads in Golf: Free Relief? | 2019](https://www.liveabout.com/putt-from-off-green-with-obstacles-1561300)

1. Golf Monthly
   - [Rules Of Golf Advice (playlist) | 2014-2024](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLl3504ZoW2FNNcmaEZ8Hn7Imk2kD7WYwk)
     * Beware: Some of the rules in the older videos may be out of date
     * E.g. 6 Most Important New Rules: 2019 Golf Rules | What To Do When You LOSE YOUR GOLF BALL |
       5 golf rules mistakes that WILL cost you a penalty shot | Dos & Don'ts In Bunkers |
       Building A Stance In A Bunker | Water Hazard Relief Options
   - [Golf Monthly: Videos](https://www.youtube.com/@GolfMonthly/videos)
     * Scroll down a few years of videos then search on the page for "rule"
       or "quiz" or "question"
   - [Neil Tappin & Jeremy Ellwood | 7 RULES (EVEN EXPERIENCED) GOLFERS FIND CONFUSING! (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NsGrA5kTpW0)
   - [Neil Tappin & Jeremy Ellwood | 7 SURPRISING GOLF RULES THAT COULD CATCH YOU OUT! (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UNJy5xosxDk)
   - [Neil Tappin & Jeremy Ellwood | 8 RULES GOLFERS BREAK... WITHOUT REALISING!! (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iAioXOIqMFw)

1. [Golf: Rules Guy](https://golf.com/writers/rules-guy-2/)
   - Question & Answer format
