Links_PitchChip.md, before:

# Pitching and chipping

## Matt Fisher

1. [MrShortGame | How To Pitch Like A PGA Tour Pro! 5 Tips for Golf Pitch Shots! [from 30 yards] (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ip7c71MwRPY)

   1. Keep ~70% of your weight on left/lead leg. Do not transfer weight
      from right leg to left leg.
   1. Do not rotate hands open during back swing.
   1. During backswing, arms do not go above horizontal. If the shot
      needs to go further, use a longer club.
   1. Club must be accelerating at impact.
   1. Optional (secret sauce): "Loosen the screw" (twist the wrist to
      close club face slightly) before the down swing. The ball
      launches lower with more spin.

   Also don't keep your head down after you strike the ball. Instead, rotate the hips/body after you strike the ball.


1. [MrShortGame | Top 5 Tips for the 80 Yard Golf Shot (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TH74wwBcv2Y)

   1. Do not use your 80 yard full-shot club. Use 1 or 2 clubs more (less
      lofted) to give more margin for error.
   1. Setup in the center of your stance.
      * Hands in the center.
      * Ball in the center.
   1. Use a shallow golf swing.
      * The hands stay low.
      * [Almost] just turning the body.
      * Shallow divot.
   1. **Very important. Keep at least 70% of your weight on left/lead/front
      foot. Keep it there for the entire back swing and forward swing.**
      * You should still rotate.
   1. Hit low with hands low.
      * Think "low".
      * In the finish position (you have rotated to face the target and)
        your hands are by your belt buckle.
      * Finishing low forces your body to rotate.
      * Hands are *not* high near your shoulder.


1. [MrShortGame | 5 Worst Chipping Mistakes in Golf and How to Fix Them! (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0SIUvql5RiE)

   Tips and fixes:

   1. Course management: When approaching the green (usually with a full shot)
      ensure your miss leaves you with a chance for "up and down". That is,
      miss to the position (i.e. left, right, front, back) where you have
      "green to work with".
   1. Course management: Assess the chip rather than take out your
      favourite/standard chipping club.
      * Read the green
      * Take the club which will land ~5 feet past the front of the green
        and let the ball run to the hole
   1. For (especially short?) chips, you *must* allow the *bounce* of the
      club to hit the ground, ***not the leading edge***. So, either:
      * do *not* have your hands forward (very much), or
      * if you do want your hands forward, open the club face
   1. For (especially short?) chips, accelerate through impact as follows:
      * feel as though the weight of the club head is falling due to gravity
        until you strike the ball
      * accelerate after striking the ball (when arms are about 6 o'clock
        to 4 o'clock)
   1. Do not "stay down" after impact. 
      * Rotate towards the target
      * "Open up" the left shoulder


1. [MrShortGame | How to Hit the Simple Golf Flop Shot! (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VR-nMi4e9ko)

   Simple version of flop shot:
   - For situations where you are on a "tight" lie. Hence you can practice
     from a mat.
   - High, soft spinning shot with little or no run after it lands. But not
     the full flop shot.
   - 60 degree wedge.
   - Open the club face.
   - Aim 30-45 degree left/open.
   - Narrow stance. Less than shoulder width.
   - Ball in center or slightly forward in your stance.
   - Hands in center or slightly forward.
   - Back swing and down swing:
     * No wrist hinge.
     * No elbow bend.
     * Feel the "bounce" of the club hit the ground. The leading edge of the
       club *must not* hit the ground.

Commit message:

Add link re 60 yard shot

Links_PitchChip.md, after:

# Pitching and chipping

## Matt Fisher

1. [MrShortGame | How To Pitch Like A PGA Tour Pro! 5 Tips for Golf Pitch Shots! [from 30 yards] (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ip7c71MwRPY)

   1. Keep ~70% of your weight on left/lead leg. Do not transfer weight
      from right leg to left leg.
   1. Do not *rotate hands open* during back swing.
   1. During backswing, arms do not go above horizontal. If the shot
      needs to go further, use a longer club.
   1. Club must be accelerating at impact.
   1. Optional (secret sauce): "Loosen the screw" (twist the wrist to
      close club face slightly) before the down swing. The ball
      launches lower with more spin.

   Also don't keep your head down after you strike the ball. Instead, rotate the hips/body after you strike the ball.


1. [MrShortGame | Top 5 Tips for the 80 Yard Golf Shot (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TH74wwBcv2Y)

   1. Do not use your 80 yard full-shot club. Use 1 or 2 clubs more (less
      lofted) to give more margin for error.
   1. Setup in the center of your stance.
      * Hands in the center.
      * Ball in the center.
   1. Use a shallow golf swing.
      * The hands stay low.
      * [Almost] just turning the body.
      * Shallow divot.
   1. **Very important. Keep at least 70% of your weight on left/lead/front
      foot. Keep it there for the entire back swing and forward swing.**
      * You should still rotate.
   1. Hit low with hands low.
      * Think "low".
      * In the finish position (you have rotated to face the target and)
        your hands are by your belt buckle.
      * Finishing low forces your body to rotate.
      * Hands are *not* high near your shoulder.


1. [MrShortGame | Top Golf Tips for the 60 Yard Shot! (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uAew1SabZYs)

   Similar to the 30 and 80 yard tips above.

   1. No wrist cock. (No wrist hinge.)
   1. Shallow back swing. Hands are not up near your shoulder during back swing. Take the club back shallow and "on the inside".
   1. Narrow stance. Stand tall.
   1. Open the club face a degree or two (so the bounce hits the ground before the club face hits the ball).


1. [MrShortGame | 5 Worst Chipping Mistakes in Golf and How to Fix Them! (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0SIUvql5RiE)

   Tips and fixes:

   1. Course management: When approaching the green (usually with a full shot)
      ensure your miss leaves you with a chance for "up and down". That is,
      miss to the position (i.e. left, right, front, back) where you have
      "green to work with".
   1. Course management: Assess the chip rather than take out your
      favourite/standard chipping club.
      * Read the green
      * Take the club which will land ~5 feet past the front of the green
        and let the ball run to the hole
   1. For (especially short?) chips, you *must* allow the *bounce* of the
      club to hit the ground, ***not the leading edge***. So, either:
      * do *not* have your hands forward (very much), or
      * if you do want your hands forward, open the club face
   1. For (especially short?) chips, accelerate through impact as follows:
      * feel as though the weight of the club head is falling due to gravity
        until you strike the ball
      * accelerate after striking the ball (when arms are about 6 o'clock
        to 4 o'clock)
   1. Do not "stay down" after impact. 
      * Rotate towards the target
      * "Open up" the left shoulder


1. [MrShortGame | How to Hit the Simple Golf Flop Shot! (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VR-nMi4e9ko)

   Simple version of flop shot:
   - For situations where you are on a "tight" lie. Hence you can practice
     from a mat.
   - High, soft spinning shot with little or no run after it lands. But not
     the full flop shot.
   - 60 degree wedge.
   - Open the club face.
   - Aim 30-45 degree left/open.
   - Narrow stance. Less than shoulder width.
   - Ball in center or slightly forward in your stance.
   - Hands in center or slightly forward.
   - Back swing and down swing:
     * No wrist hinge.
     * No elbow bend.
     * Feel the "bounce" of the club hit the ground. The leading edge of the
       club *must not* hit the ground.
