Links_GripPressure.md, before:

# Golf grip and pressure

1. [Rob Cheney Golf | The Golf Grip and Pressure Points - Unlock the Key to Better Golf | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C8JDlLaMpC4)
1. [The Par Train | How to Grip the Golf Club Perfectly | The Best Grip Tutorial I've Ever Heard | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9Pu7ksj-rtM)
1. [Scratch Golf Academy | Correct Understanding of Grip Pressure in Golf | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aSYxtVKCfQI)
1. [Meandmygolf | How To Build The "PERFECT" Golf Grip...Avoid These KILLER Mistakes! | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vW6i3IUTcq4)
1. [MAKE THE TURN | Golf Grip Pressure Secret! | 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x6jNDGpZJmo)


## Too much thumb pressure

1. [RotarySwing.com Golf Instruction | Golf Left Thumb: Fix Pain, Soreness, Casting | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=maR95trjSuE)
1. [Overhand Golf | THUMBS ARE BAD FOR GOLF!? [Golf Grip Secret] | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YxM8hd6Ojmo)


## Pros: Varying opinion about grip pressure

1. [Golf Channel | Correct Grip Pressure Tips | Golf Channel | 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q5r6J5DIEt4) - Ian Woosnam
1. [Golf Secrets | The BEST Golf Grip Lesson on YouTube | The Legend Tom Watson | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LTHQtOX1fac)
1. [Padraig Harrington | HOW TO GRIP YOUR GOLF CLUB CORRECTLY | Paddy's Golf Tip #33 | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JxHly2uvHQs)


## Common themes

1. Grip with the fingers for flexibility (not in your palm/lifeline/fist)
1. Grip with last 3 fingers of lead hand and middle 2 fingers of trail hand
1. The "second knuckle" of the trigger (index) finger of the trail hand should
   hook around the trail side of the grip
1. Coaches/players may advocate strong or weak grip pressure, but they all
   advocate:
   * loose wrists, forearms and shoulders
   * flexibility in golf club movement (i.e. left/right and up/down)
1. Typically, thumb pressure should be light
1. For some Tour Pros (e.g. Vijay Singh and Fred Couples) the trail hand grip is so
   light at impact that the hand appears to comes off the grip shortly after impact


## Less conventional grip pressure ideas

1. [Golf with Aimee | A Secret to Perfect Grip | Golf with Aimee | 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gQpiOl5jj88)
   - Although the words are unconventional, the look appears fairly conventional to me

Commit message:

Add new link re grip/pressure

Links_GripPressure.md, after:

# Golf grip and pressure

1. [Rob Cheney Golf | The Golf Grip and Pressure Points - Unlock the Key to Better Golf | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C8JDlLaMpC4)
1. [The Par Train | How to Grip the Golf Club Perfectly | The Best Grip Tutorial I've Ever Heard | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9Pu7ksj-rtM)
1. [Scratch Golf Academy | Correct Understanding of Grip Pressure in Golf | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aSYxtVKCfQI)
1. [Golf Coach: Dr. Noel | How to Form the Perfect Golf Grip | 2013](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LxN9sRQV-bM)

1. [Meandmygolf | How To Build The "PERFECT" Golf Grip...Avoid These KILLER Mistakes! | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vW6i3IUTcq4)
1. [MAKE THE TURN | Golf Grip Pressure Secret! | 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x6jNDGpZJmo)


## Too much thumb pressure

1. [RotarySwing.com Golf Instruction | Golf Left Thumb: Fix Pain, Soreness, Casting | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=maR95trjSuE)
1. [Overhand Golf | THUMBS ARE BAD FOR GOLF!? [Golf Grip Secret] | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YxM8hd6Ojmo)


## Pros: Varying opinion about grip pressure

1. [Golf Channel | Correct Grip Pressure Tips | Golf Channel | 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q5r6J5DIEt4) - Ian Woosnam
1. [Golf Secrets | The BEST Golf Grip Lesson on YouTube | The Legend Tom Watson | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LTHQtOX1fac)
1. [Padraig Harrington | HOW TO GRIP YOUR GOLF CLUB CORRECTLY | Paddy's Golf Tip #33 | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JxHly2uvHQs)


## Common themes

1. Grip with the fingers for flexibility (not in your palm/lifeline/fist)
1. Grip with last 3 fingers of lead hand and middle 2 fingers of trail hand
1. The "second knuckle" of the trigger (index) finger of the trail hand should
   hook around the trail side of the grip
1. Coaches/players may advocate strong or weak grip pressure, but they all
   advocate:
   * loose wrists, forearms and shoulders
   * flexibility in golf club movement (i.e. left/right and up/down)
1. Typically, thumb pressure should be light
1. For some Tour Pros (e.g. Vijay Singh and Fred Couples) the trail hand grip is so
   light at impact that the hand appears to comes off the grip shortly after impact


## Less conventional grip pressure ideas

1. [Golf with Aimee | A Secret to Perfect Grip | Golf with Aimee | 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gQpiOl5jj88)
   - Although the words are unconventional, the look appears fairly conventional to me
