Links_GolfTips2025a.md, before:

# Golf tips - 2025


## Follow through

1. :thumbsup: [Richard Rice Golf | Golf Follow Through | How to Think About it and Practice it! (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5zAfKD1ucl8)

1. [ChrisRyanGolf | HOW TO COMPLETE YOUR GOLF FOLLOW THROUGH (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf0v-iCntNo)

1. [Michael Breed | Fix Your Follow Through! An Easy Guide to a Smooth Finish with Michael Breed (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KwsUFMzjKF4)

1. [Backswing.com | What are some ways to work on follow through for your golf swing? | 2022](https://backswing.com/roundup/golf-swing-follow-through/)


## Transition & shift

### Intro

1. [Keiser University College of Golf: Dr. T. J. Tomasi | The Smallest, Most Important Move in Golf | 2018-2021](https://collegeofgolf.keiseruniversity.edu/smallest-important-move-golf/)
   - The downswing’s lateral motion begins at the top of the backswing when you transfer pressure from your
     rear hip joint to your forward hip joint – meanwhile, your hips drop and slide... towards the target
   - As soon as the pressure is deposited on your lead side... the rotational motion of your hips can begin

1. :thumbsup: [Golf: Nick Dimengo | Optimize your distance by discovering the proper weight shift. Here’s how | 2023](https://golf.com/instruction/proper-weight-shift-optimized-distance-jake-thurm/) -- watch the video
   - The key to shifting mass is that you do it quickly, not continually
   - When to stop shifting and start rotating


### Detail

1. :thumbsup: [Zach Allen Golf | HOW TO START THE GOLF DOWNSWING CORRECTLY (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m0nGXwTw8XE)
   - Hip flexion | Hip rotation | Reverse forearm rotation

1. :thumbsup: [Giles Gill Golf | EVERYTHING You Need To Know About Rotating In The Downswing! (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZAe8FrO33Jo)
   - Drill for how much hip rotation we have | Wall drag drill | Chopsticks drill | Preset impact drill

1. [Billy Fitzgerald Golf](people/Links_BillyFitzgerald.md)

1. [Milo Lines Golf | 5 Keys To Building A Rotational Golf Swing (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dEHn9i9H618&t=1m47s)
   - Key #4: Ground work (from the start to the finish of the swing)
   - Although only about half of the video is about transition, it's worth watching it all

1. [MyGolfSpy: Brittany Olizarowicz | Best Golf Transition Drills (4 to try) | 2024](https://mygolfspy.com/news-opinion/best-golf-transition-drills-4-to-try/) -- watch videos 1 & 4

1. [Eric Cogorno Golf | This ONE Hip Move Could Fix Your Entire Swing w/ Mike Malaska (Revisited) (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gjKaUpz1dCA)


## Downswing

1. [Performance Golf: JT Thomas | How to shallow the golf club to hit longer, straighter drives (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jC0hXILPQT8)

1. [Good Good Extra: Grant Horvat | How To Shallow Your Golf Swing | Good Good Labs (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DOcS_IhDAhs&t=4m07s)

1. [Meandmygolf: Piers Ward & Andy Proudman | How To SHALLOW The Golf Club In The Downswing (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tN8AO9nKSAQ)

1. [Danny Maude | HOW TO SHALLOW OUT GOLF CLUB AND HIT IT LONGER (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DxMvIKhKWdM&t=3m13s)

1. Performance Golf: Matt Walter
   - [How To Start Your Downswing For Explosive Power (video) | 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gHpwkrM7c9M)
   - [Arm Trick To Increase Lag In The Downswing (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GYHROYn4TVY)


## Driver & spin

If you don't understand any of the Golf Analysis terms, go to
[this glossary page](Links_Glossary.md) and look at the Trackman terms.

1. [The Stephens Golf Center | Causes and fixes for Negative Attack Angle- Trackman Golf (video) | 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fxo6IFzyopU)
1. [Alistair Davies Golf | Increase Distance By Reducing Backspin Spin With The Driver (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b3EXNfMJ3Ss)
1. [Sydney Golf Tech (Greg Bayley) | How to optimise your driver spin (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l8WZJ7hPLqs)
1. [GolfersRx | How Backspin Affects Your Driving Distance (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zCgpk3WroDA)
1. [Golf Monthly: Joel Tadman | What Loft Of Driver Should I Use? | 2024](https://www.golfmonthly.com/gear/gear-blog/what-loft-of-driver-should-i-use-69479) -- garden hose analogy


### Data

1. [My Golf Distance.com | Optimal Golf Distance Chart by Angle of Attack | c.2022](https://mygolfdistance.com/optimal-golf-distance-chart-by-angle-of-attack/)
   - Web site: [How to add 135 yards to your drives](https://mygolfdistance.com/sim2/) |
     [Average Driving Distance for Men and Women](https://mygolfdistance.com/average-driving-distance/) |
     [Optimal Driving Distance Simulator](https://mygolfdistance.com/Simulators/OptimalSim.html)

1. PING Optimal launch and spin chart
   - I can't find the original document, but here are some references...
   - [WRX Club Techs | Optimal launch and spin chart | 2022](https://forums.golfwrx.com/topic/1874426-optimal-launch-and-spin-chart/)
   - [Mark Crossfield | How Far Should You Hit Your Driver - The Truth Exposed Stop The LIES (video) | 2025](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BItjRJWAkMg&t=6m38s)

1. [PING: Chris Broadie | Unlocking Distance: Launch Conditions and Angle of Attack | c.2020](https://ping.com/en-us/blogs/proving-grounds/optimal-launch-and-spin)


## Golf podcasts

1. [Adam Young/Jon Sherman | The Sweet Spot (podcast)](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-sweet-spot-golf-podcast/id1552917994)
1. [Mark Immelman | On the Mark (podcast)](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/on-the-mark-golf-podcast/id1096925460)
1. [Cordie Walker | Golf Science Lab (podcast)](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/golf-science-lab/id1049039619) and via [SoundCloud](https://soundcloud.com/golf-science-lab)
1. [GolfWRX Radio (podcast)](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/golfwrx-radio/id1302185956) and  via [SoundCloud](https://soundcloud.com/golfwrx)

[MyGolfSpy: Sean Fairholm | Our Top 10 Golf Podcasts | 2024](https://mygolfspy.com/news-opinion/our-top-10-golf-podcasts/)

Commit message:

Add downswing & bunker video links

Links_GolfTips2025a.md, after:

# Golf tips - 2025


## Follow through

1. :thumbsup: [Richard Rice Golf | Golf Follow Through | How to Think About it and Practice it! (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5zAfKD1ucl8)

1. [ChrisRyanGolf | HOW TO COMPLETE YOUR GOLF FOLLOW THROUGH (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf0v-iCntNo)

1. [Michael Breed | Fix Your Follow Through! An Easy Guide to a Smooth Finish with Michael Breed (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KwsUFMzjKF4)

1. [Backswing.com | What are some ways to work on follow through for your golf swing? | 2022](https://backswing.com/roundup/golf-swing-follow-through/)


## Transition & shift

### Intro

1. [Keiser University College of Golf: Dr. T. J. Tomasi | The Smallest, Most Important Move in Golf | 2018-2021](https://collegeofgolf.keiseruniversity.edu/smallest-important-move-golf/)
   - The downswing’s lateral motion begins at the top of the backswing when you transfer pressure from your
     rear hip joint to your forward hip joint – meanwhile, your hips drop and slide... towards the target
   - As soon as the pressure is deposited on your lead side... the rotational motion of your hips can begin

1. :thumbsup: [Golf: Nick Dimengo | Optimize your distance by discovering the proper weight shift. Here’s how | 2023](https://golf.com/instruction/proper-weight-shift-optimized-distance-jake-thurm/) -- watch the video
   - The key to shifting mass is that you do it quickly, not continually
   - When to stop shifting and start rotating


### Detail

1. :thumbsup: [Zach Allen Golf | HOW TO START THE GOLF DOWNSWING CORRECTLY (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m0nGXwTw8XE)
   - Hip flexion | Hip rotation | Reverse forearm rotation

1. :thumbsup: [Giles Gill Golf | EVERYTHING You Need To Know About Rotating In The Downswing! (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZAe8FrO33Jo)
   - Drill for how much hip rotation we have | Wall drag drill | Chopsticks drill | Preset impact drill

1. [Billy Fitzgerald Golf](people/Links_BillyFitzgerald.md)

1. [Milo Lines Golf | 5 Keys To Building A Rotational Golf Swing (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dEHn9i9H618&t=1m47s)
   - Key #4: Ground work (from the start to the finish of the swing)
   - Although only about half of the video is about transition, it's worth watching it all

1. [The Scratch Plan | Hogan Says You Will Break 80 in 6 Months by Following "Ben Hogan's Five Lessons." Let's Try It! | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xafcHR8Lym8&t=7m30s)
   - **Start downswing [by rotating] hips** (which brings arms down to your waist) | Then swing as hard as you can with both right arm and left arm
   - Practice initiating the downswing with the hips | Visualise an elastic band pulling your left hip back
   - Hogan says it's impossible to turn your hips too fast 

1. [MyGolfSpy: Brittany Olizarowicz | Best Golf Transition Drills (4 to try) | 2024](https://mygolfspy.com/news-opinion/best-golf-transition-drills-4-to-try/) -- watch videos 1 & 4

1. [Eric Cogorno Golf | This ONE Hip Move Could Fix Your Entire Swing w/ Mike Malaska (Revisited) (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gjKaUpz1dCA)


## Shallow downswing

1. [Performance Golf: JT Thomas | How to shallow the golf club to hit longer, straighter drives (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jC0hXILPQT8)

1. [Good Good Extra: Grant Horvat | How To Shallow Your Golf Swing | Good Good Labs (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DOcS_IhDAhs&t=4m07s)

1. [Meandmygolf: Piers Ward & Andy Proudman | How To SHALLOW The Golf Club In The Downswing (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tN8AO9nKSAQ)

1. [Danny Maude | HOW TO SHALLOW OUT GOLF CLUB AND HIT IT LONGER (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DxMvIKhKWdM&t=3m13s)


## Driver & spin

If you don't understand any of the Golf Analysis terms, go to
[this glossary page](Links_Glossary.md) and look at the Trackman terms.

1. [The Stephens Golf Center | Causes and fixes for Negative Attack Angle- Trackman Golf (video) | 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fxo6IFzyopU)
1. [Alistair Davies Golf | Increase Distance By Reducing Backspin Spin With The Driver (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b3EXNfMJ3Ss)
1. [Sydney Golf Tech (Greg Bayley) | How to optimise your driver spin (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l8WZJ7hPLqs)
1. [GolfersRx | How Backspin Affects Your Driving Distance (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zCgpk3WroDA)
1. [Golf Monthly: Joel Tadman | What Loft Of Driver Should I Use? | 2024](https://www.golfmonthly.com/gear/gear-blog/what-loft-of-driver-should-i-use-69479) -- garden hose analogy


### Data

1. [My Golf Distance.com | Optimal Golf Distance Chart by Angle of Attack | c.2022](https://mygolfdistance.com/optimal-golf-distance-chart-by-angle-of-attack/)
   - Web site: [How to add 135 yards to your drives](https://mygolfdistance.com/sim2/) |
     [Average Driving Distance for Men and Women](https://mygolfdistance.com/average-driving-distance/) |
     [Optimal Driving Distance Simulator](https://mygolfdistance.com/Simulators/OptimalSim.html)

1. PING Optimal launch and spin chart
   - I can't find the original document, but here are some references...
   - [WRX Club Techs | Optimal launch and spin chart | 2022](https://forums.golfwrx.com/topic/1874426-optimal-launch-and-spin-chart/)
   - [Mark Crossfield | How Far Should You Hit Your Driver - The Truth Exposed Stop The LIES (video) | 2025](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BItjRJWAkMg&t=6m38s)

1. [PING: Chris Broadie | Unlocking Distance: Launch Conditions and Angle of Attack | c.2020](https://ping.com/en-us/blogs/proving-grounds/optimal-launch-and-spin)


## Golf podcasts

1. [Adam Young/Jon Sherman | The Sweet Spot (podcast)](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-sweet-spot-golf-podcast/id1552917994)
1. [Mark Immelman | On the Mark (podcast)](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/on-the-mark-golf-podcast/id1096925460)
1. [Cordie Walker | Golf Science Lab (podcast)](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/golf-science-lab/id1049039619) and via [SoundCloud](https://soundcloud.com/golf-science-lab)
1. [GolfWRX Radio (podcast)](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/golfwrx-radio/id1302185956) and  via [SoundCloud](https://soundcloud.com/golfwrx)

[MyGolfSpy: Sean Fairholm | Our Top 10 Golf Podcasts | 2024](https://mygolfspy.com/news-opinion/our-top-10-golf-podcasts/)
