people/Links_ZachAllen.md, before:

# Zach Allen

## Balance

1. :thumbsup: [Fix your weight transfer | Fix your golf swing (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yvTyvclGwps) -- Start your downswing with a squat to achieve a balanced finish
1. [Simple Ways to Make Better Contact and Get EFFORTLESS Distance (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cYTQQnL2bSc)


## Mobility

1. [Try These Proven Mobility Tricks for Senior Golfers (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NoZOaFxfBZ0)
1. [How to Use Your Legs in the Golf Swing (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yHSvHo10RbU) -- Lower body mobility
1. [Unlock Your Golf Swing's Secret Weapon: Upper Thoracic Mobility! (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p4VrQfihEgk) -- Side bend
1. [The SIMPLEST Golf Tip Ever - Idiot-proof lesson works for EVERY golfer (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cJL42EN86Es) -- Side bend and finish


## Less body turn

1. :thumbsup: [Slow Down to Speed Up (video) | 2014](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5f_3QzQphFo) -- The right shoulder turns very little during the *vertical drop*
   (similar to [this Lily Golf video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LPSoXu1_YZU))
1. [SHIFT, Don't Turn to Start the Golf Swing (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iwZ2C34NS1E)
1. [Don't Turn Your Shoulders... Do THIS Instead (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=txNaJOqwmPw)
1. [Don't Turn Your Shoulders for a Driver Golf Swing (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4uSPLw_dhX4)

Commit message:

Add more Zach Allen links

people/Links_ZachAllen.md, after:

# Zach Allen

## Balance

1. :thumbsup: [Fix your weight transfer | Fix your golf swing (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yvTyvclGwps) -- Start your downswing with a squat to achieve a balanced finish
1. [Simple Ways to Make Better Contact and Get EFFORTLESS Distance (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cYTQQnL2bSc)


## Mobility

1. [Try These Proven Mobility Tricks for Senior Golfers (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NoZOaFxfBZ0)
1. [How to Use Your Legs in the Golf Swing (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yHSvHo10RbU) -- Lower body mobility
1. [Unlock Your Golf Swing's Secret Weapon: Upper Thoracic Mobility! (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p4VrQfihEgk) -- Side bend
1. [The SIMPLEST Golf Tip Ever - Idiot-proof lesson works for EVERY golfer (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cJL42EN86Es) -- Side bend and finish


## Less body turn

1. [Slow Down to Speed Up (video) | 2014](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5f_3QzQphFo) -- The right shoulder turns very little during the *vertical drop*
   (similar to [this Lily Golf video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LPSoXu1_YZU) :thumbsup:)
1. [SHIFT, Don't Turn to Start the Golf Swing (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iwZ2C34NS1E)
1. [Don't Turn Your Shoulders... Do THIS Instead (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=txNaJOqwmPw)
1. [Don't Turn Your Shoulders for a Driver Golf Swing (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4uSPLw_dhX4)


## Kinematic sequence

1. :thumbsup: [Shift, Turn, Extend - How to Get More Power in Golf (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VQDUZT-50CQ)
1. :thumbsup: [Hogan's "Multiplying" Effect - How to Get EFFORTLESS Power (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g9riaHgz5dI)
