people/Links_KevinHwangJr.md, before:

# Kevin Hwang Jr

Many of his videos are short, 2 to 10 minutes


## Effortless swing speed

1. [This downswing secret will help you gain effortless distance! (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRFPsAkFIF0)
   - Focus on lower body and arms, the upper body will open up (rotate) naturally during the downswing
   - Pull the club down with the lower body | When we reach the setup position then throw the arms towards the target
   - Pull the club down with the lead lat and lead pelvis; this moves the club "into the slot" while maintaining the arm/club angles

1. [Fastest way to gain distance with your driver! [IMMEDIATE RESULTS!] (video) | 2025](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4IE7F5a3DYU)
   - Pull the club down with the lower body | Then throw arms towards the target


### Don't consciously rotate the upper body in the downswing

1. :thumbsup: [Please do not do this if you want an effortless golf swing! | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eZ5r4DWs9P4)
   - Do not open your body if you want effortless speed and power
   - Do not consciously think about the tour-like open impact position (body 45° open, forward shaft lean, side bend)
   - Pull the club down with the lower body **while arms and upper body stay in place** |
     **When the lower body reaches the setup position** then throw the arms towards the 1 o'clock position

1. [Golf Lesson: 2 Tips To Increase Clubhead Speed Immediately | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EewEbXAtPPg)
   - Tip 1: From half way down (about P6): Stop/minimise rotation | Throw the arms towards the target
   - Tip 2: From about P6 to P8: Visualise hands moving a short distance while clubhead moves a great distance [L-to-L movement]
   - Grip pressure 1/10 or 2/10 | Relax arms | Arms feel like rope or noodles


### Drills

1. [[ GOLF LESSON ] 3 DRILLS To Achieve A Effortless Golf Swing! (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3_RvU16UtB4)
   - Intro: Loosen grip pressure and arms | Arms feel like rope or noodles |
     We want the club head (not hands) to swing back and forth [L-to-L drill]
   - **Grip for every drill**: Grip in the fingers | Only the bottom 3 fingers in each hand (thumb and index fingers off)
   - [2m01s] Drill #1: Swing L-to-L | Repeat
   - [3m35s] Drill #2: Start at P7.5 (where lead arm and shaft are straight) | Swing to the top | Downswing to P7.5 | Repeat
   - [5m27s] Drill #3: Sequence without a club: [7m58s] Start at P5 | Thumb up on lead hand pointed to the sky |
     Push butt back | Rotate back to setup position (about P6) with thumb still pointed to the sky |
     Release: swing arms towards the target

1. [Dr Kwon Downswing Sequence Drill | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9Xx0388lpks)
   - Aims: Assists sequence feel | Reduces trail side dominant, over the top and pull-down (steep) feels
   - Drill: Rest iron on trail shoulder | Hold iron with lead hand | Move body to the top, P4 |
     "Pump" [lower?] body to setup position (P6) 3 times | On the 3rd pump, "throw" the club and complete the swing


## Backswing

1. [How to create a tour like backswing to create effortless power coming down! | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wbPmY4yB4hg)
   - High hands at the top of the backswing come from spine being on an incline plane + greater rotation |
     Fold your right arm towards your right shoulder |
     A drill while standing vertical only has your right hand slightly above your shoulder

1. [Fastest Way To Improve Your Backswing! | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AvZkv_ofwLc) -- Drill


## Transition and shift

1. :thumbsup: [[ GOLF LESSON ] 3 Drills To Immediately Fix Your Early Extension | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XXlUGy-nuUQ)
   - Ensure that your lead hip does not move towards the ball during the backswing
   - During the backswing: lead hip stays in place and trail hip moves back | During the downswing: trail hip stays in place and lead hip moves back
   - Drill #1: At the top (P4) the starting move down is to push your butt back by 2-3 inches | Be patient | Then swing towards the target |
     Perform the 2 pieces separately, then later blend together | [A variation on this drill](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OgaPfvYNhHg&t=2m35s)
   - Drill #2: Feel the pelvis point towards the ground: As per drill 1 but setup with the trail leg behind the lead leg |
     Feel like the trail knee stays behind the lead knee forever
   - Drill #3a: As per drill 2, but hold the clubhead at your belly button with the shaft pointing away from your body |
     Ensure the shaft points towards the ground after the transition
   - Drill #3b: Extreme pelvis feel: Ensure that after the transition, you can hold a golf ball in your trail-side hip-crease

1. [Golf Drill To Get Right Into The Slot | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-rnpn5p_B5U)
   - Aim: To get a feel for the transition pause
   - Loose grip pressure | Make a 3/4 backswing (to about P3/P5) | Briefly let go of the grip then re-grip | Then swing

1. [Golf Transition Feel | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QCvq5PQ1EKQ)
   - Relax arms at the top | Pelvis folds and points towards the ground (lower body unwinds) | Club falls into a good plane
   - Only when you get into this position should you think about hitting the ball

1. [[ GOLF LESSON ] 3 Drills To Immediately Shift Your Weight Forward | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e6ExlgOny0Y)
   - [1m00s] Drill #1a: L-to-L drill | Lift trail foot when the club moves to the lead side | Repeat continuously
   - [2m32s] Drill #1b: Make a normal swing | Hit the ball | During the follow through, step towards target with your trail foot
   - [3m06s] Drill #2: Re-center step-drill: Feet together | Towards the top of the backswing | Lead foot steps towards target | Complete the swing
   - [3m50s] Drill #3: At the top | Side-bend while upper body falls towards the target

1. [Create a powerful golf swing with a proper weight shift! | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aR-gdDW1l-s)


## Wrists

1. [This secret move will take your ball striking to the next level! (Every tour pro does this!) | 2025](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q8jM-6sC_AU)
   - Aim: To get the left/lead knuckles to point more towards the ground without hooking the ball
   - [1m07s] 1: Supinated release: Lead hand phone drill
   - [2m23s] 2a: At about P8: Clubhead remains outside the hands | Clubhead and glove logo point towards the ground
   - [3m19s] 2b: When shoulders are square? (P1 & P6): Lead elbow should point towards the target
   - [4m11s] 3: Need the correct sequence, i.e. a delayed/late hit (avoid a "hit impulse" early in the downswing)

1. [How to create effortless power in the golf swing and gain distance along the way! (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pJ6XV4Nbwkk)
   - [0m58s] Hit the ball with the weight of the club head: | During the downswing, let go of the angles you created
     | Feel that the club head drops *underneath* the golf ball
   - [4m24s] Supinated release: | If the clubhead remains outside of the hands, the ball will not hook left
     | Use the wrists to deloft the clubface | Freezer drill


## Footwork

1. :thumbsup: [Stop Swaying In The Golf Swing With Proper Footwork | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xoHiv86uC6o)
   - During the backswing, keep the pressure on the inside of your trail foot (which can help you "push off" during the downswing)

1. [Copy Tiger Wood’s footwork and take your golf game to the next level! | 2025](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rPxF3Fvc-j4)


## Other

1. [Fix All Your Downswing Faults w/ this One Simple Drill! | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W37H8T8TMcU)
1. [How To Keep Your Left Arm Straight | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p6kev3UMTGg)
1. [Perfect Golf Swing Exercise | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4MDxf24pRIg)
   - Visualise the club position near the top and finish without any body rotation

Commit message:

In people folder, indicate video links

people/Links_KevinHwangJr.md, after:

# Kevin Hwang Jr

Many of his videos are short, 2 to 10 minutes


## Effortless swing speed

1. [This downswing secret will help you gain effortless distance! (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRFPsAkFIF0)
   - Focus on lower body and arms, the upper body will open up (rotate) naturally during the downswing
   - Pull the club down with the lower body | When we reach the setup position then throw the arms towards the target
   - Pull the club down with the lead lat and lead pelvis; this moves the club "into the slot" while maintaining the arm/club angles

1. [Fastest way to gain distance with your driver! [IMMEDIATE RESULTS!] (video) | 2025](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4IE7F5a3DYU)
   - Pull the club down with the lower body | Then throw arms towards the target


### Don't consciously rotate the upper body in the downswing

1. :thumbsup: [Please do not do this if you want an effortless golf swing! (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eZ5r4DWs9P4)
   - Do not open your body if you want effortless speed and power
   - Do not consciously think about the tour-like open impact position (body 45° open, forward shaft lean, side bend)
   - Pull the club down with the lower body **while arms and upper body stay in place** |
     **When the lower body reaches the setup position** then throw the arms towards the 1 o'clock position

1. [Golf Lesson: 2 Tips To Increase Clubhead Speed Immediately (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EewEbXAtPPg)
   - Tip 1: From half way down (about P6): Stop/minimise rotation | Throw the arms towards the target
   - Tip 2: From about P6 to P8: Visualise hands moving a short distance while clubhead moves a great distance [L-to-L movement]
   - Grip pressure 1/10 or 2/10 | Relax arms | Arms feel like rope or noodles


### Drills

1. [[ GOLF LESSON ] 3 DRILLS To Achieve A Effortless Golf Swing! (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3_RvU16UtB4)
   - Intro: Loosen grip pressure and arms | Arms feel like rope or noodles |
     We want the club head (not hands) to swing back and forth [L-to-L drill]
   - **Grip for every drill**: Grip in the fingers | Only the bottom 3 fingers in each hand (thumb and index fingers off)
   - [2m01s] Drill #1: Swing L-to-L | Repeat
   - [3m35s] Drill #2: Start at P7.5 (where lead arm and shaft are straight) | Swing to the top | Downswing to P7.5 | Repeat
   - [5m27s] Drill #3: Sequence without a club: [7m58s] Start at P5 | Thumb up on lead hand pointed to the sky |
     Push butt back | Rotate back to setup position (about P6) with thumb still pointed to the sky |
     Release: swing arms towards the target

1. [Dr Kwon Downswing Sequence Drill (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9Xx0388lpks)
   - Aims: Assists sequence feel | Reduces trail side dominant, over the top and pull-down (steep) feels
   - Drill: Rest iron on trail shoulder | Hold iron with lead hand | Move body to the top, P4 |
     "Pump" [lower?] body to setup position (P6) 3 times | On the 3rd pump, "throw" the club and complete the swing


## Backswing

1. [How to create a tour like backswing to create effortless power coming down! (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wbPmY4yB4hg)
   - High hands at the top of the backswing come from spine being on an incline plane + greater rotation |
     Fold your right arm towards your right shoulder |
     A drill while standing vertical only has your right hand slightly above your shoulder

1. [Fastest Way To Improve Your Backswing! (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AvZkv_ofwLc) -- Drill


## Transition and shift

1. :thumbsup: [[ GOLF LESSON ] 3 Drills To Immediately Fix Your Early Extension (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XXlUGy-nuUQ)
   - Ensure that your lead hip does not move towards the ball during the backswing
   - During the backswing: lead hip stays in place and trail hip moves back | During the downswing: trail hip stays in place and lead hip moves back
   - Drill #1: At the top (P4) the starting move down is to push your butt back by 2-3 inches | Be patient | Then swing towards the target |
     Perform the 2 pieces separately, then later blend together | [A variation on this drill](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OgaPfvYNhHg&t=2m35s)
   - Drill #2: Feel the pelvis point towards the ground: As per drill 1 but setup with the trail leg behind the lead leg |
     Feel like the trail knee stays behind the lead knee forever
   - Drill #3a: As per drill 2, but hold the clubhead at your belly button with the shaft pointing away from your body |
     Ensure the shaft points towards the ground after the transition
   - Drill #3b: Extreme pelvis feel: Ensure that after the transition, you can hold a golf ball in your trail-side hip-crease

1. [Golf Drill To Get Right Into The Slot (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-rnpn5p_B5U)
   - Aim: To get a feel for the transition pause
   - Loose grip pressure | Make a 3/4 backswing (to about P3/P5) | Briefly let go of the grip then re-grip | Then swing

1. [Golf Transition Feel (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QCvq5PQ1EKQ)
   - Relax arms at the top | Pelvis folds and points towards the ground (lower body unwinds) | Club falls into a good plane
   - Only when you get into this position should you think about hitting the ball

1. [[ GOLF LESSON ] 3 Drills To Immediately Shift Your Weight Forward (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e6ExlgOny0Y)
   - [1m00s] Drill #1a: L-to-L drill | Lift trail foot when the club moves to the lead side | Repeat continuously
   - [2m32s] Drill #1b: Make a normal swing | Hit the ball | During the follow through, step towards target with your trail foot
   - [3m06s] Drill #2: Re-center step-drill: Feet together | Towards the top of the backswing | Lead foot steps towards target | Complete the swing
   - [3m50s] Drill #3: At the top | Side-bend while upper body falls towards the target

1. [Create a powerful golf swing with a proper weight shift! (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aR-gdDW1l-s)


## Wrists

1. [This secret move will take your ball striking to the next level! (Every tour pro does this!) (video) | 2025](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q8jM-6sC_AU)
   - Aim: To get the left/lead knuckles to point more towards the ground without hooking the ball
   - [1m07s] 1: Supinated release: Lead hand phone drill
   - [2m23s] 2a: At about P8: Clubhead remains outside the hands | Clubhead and glove logo point towards the ground
   - [3m19s] 2b: When shoulders are square? (P1 & P6): Lead elbow should point towards the target
   - [4m11s] 3: Need the correct sequence, i.e. a delayed/late hit (avoid a "hit impulse" early in the downswing)

1. [How to create effortless power in the golf swing and gain distance along the way! (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pJ6XV4Nbwkk)
   - [0m58s] Hit the ball with the weight of the club head: | During the downswing, let go of the angles you created
     | Feel that the club head drops *underneath* the golf ball
   - [4m24s] Supinated release: | If the clubhead remains outside of the hands, the ball will not hook left
     | Use the wrists to deloft the clubface | Freezer drill


## Footwork

1. :thumbsup: [Stop Swaying In The Golf Swing With Proper Footwork (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xoHiv86uC6o)
   - During the backswing, keep the pressure on the inside of your trail foot (which can help you "push off" during the downswing)

1. [Copy Tiger Wood’s footwork and take your golf game to the next level! (video) | 2025](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rPxF3Fvc-j4)


## Other

1. [Fix All Your Downswing Faults w/ this One Simple Drill! (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W37H8T8TMcU)
1. [How To Keep Your Left Arm Straight (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p6kev3UMTGg)
1. [Perfect Golf Swing Exercise (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4MDxf24pRIg)
   - Visualise the club position near the top and finish without any body rotation
