people/Links_CHAGOLTV.md, before:

# CHAGOL TV - Charlie Takaoki

These videos are spoken in Japanese but have English subtitles.
So I can read and watch the body movements at the same time, I
often like to view them at x0.75 speed.

1. [Golf Tip: How to Effectively Transfer Your Energy to the Ball | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8mt5cOEIRsY)
   - Rubber ball drill for wrist and arm positions

1. [Golf Tips: Increase Your Speed Using Leverage Instead of Strength | 2025](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UJ1pwaaj_Cw)
   - One arm drills | Right hand = fulcrum, left hand = "point of effort" |
     At shoulder height on follow through, stretch to shake hands **without**
     moving your head forward

1. [The Biggest Difference Between Those Who Can Hit the Ball Far and Those Who Can't | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DI5DF4Rk9pI)
   - Pronation and supination of forearms

1. [Golf Tips: Split Your Downswing into Two Parts for Greater Ball Distance! | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HdzxYPlX7lA)

1. [Golf Tips: How to Transfer Your Body's Energy to the Ball Effectively | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OZpBP5pDA8E)
   - The problem: Using the arms/hands before opening and rotating the body
   - Drill with club shaft across shoulders | Right shoulder back at the top |
     Hold left arm across shoulders from address to impact then let go |
     **Hand position should remain fixed in relation to your body** and this
     should allow you to retain side bend [at impact] |
     **Geostationary satellite analogy** | Aim low, but don't dip your head

Commit message:

In people folder, indicate video links

people/Links_CHAGOLTV.md, after:

# CHAGOL TV - Charlie Takaoki

These videos are spoken in Japanese but have English subtitles.
So I can read and watch the body movements at the same time, I
often like to view them at x0.75 speed.

1. [Golf Tip: How to Effectively Transfer Your Energy to the Ball (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8mt5cOEIRsY)
   - Rubber ball drill for wrist and arm positions

1. [Golf Tips: Increase Your Speed Using Leverage Instead of Strength (video) | 2025](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UJ1pwaaj_Cw)
   - One arm drills | Right hand = fulcrum, left hand = "point of effort" |
     At shoulder height on follow through, stretch to shake hands **without**
     moving your head forward

1. [The Biggest Difference Between Those Who Can Hit the Ball Far and Those Who Can't (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DI5DF4Rk9pI)
   - Pronation and supination of forearms

1. [Golf Tips: Split Your Downswing into Two Parts for Greater Ball Distance! (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HdzxYPlX7lA)

1. [Golf Tips: How to Transfer Your Body's Energy to the Ball Effectively (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OZpBP5pDA8E)
   - The problem: Using the arms/hands before opening and rotating the body
   - Drill with club shaft across shoulders | Right shoulder back at the top |
     Hold left arm across shoulders from address to impact then let go |
     **Hand position should remain fixed in relation to your body** and this
     should allow you to retain side bend [at impact] |
     **Geostationary satellite analogy** | Aim low, but don't dip your head
