people/Links_DanGrieve.md, before:

# Dan Grieve

Short game expert. Specialises in:

- Chipping: releases 1, 2 and 3
- Bunker shots
- Pitching
- Short game IQ: e.g. Lie, landing then loft

## Dan Grieve

1. [The Three Releases: Simplicity when chipping! | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SfaxE8Ec-hk)
   - How to easily alter ball flight and spin
   - You need an ok lie for releases 2 and 3
   - Release 1 - Chip and run:
     * Uses the front section of the bounce
     * Will work from almost any lie
     * Can use almost any club, e.g. 56° for nearby pin or 8 iron
       for distant pin
     * Just past impact, the shaft points toward your lead (left) hip
     * Use a small amount of forward shaft lean
     * Fairly level shoulders
     * Light grip
     * Lead hands in a high position (with straight wrist) which
       discourages wrist hinge [and I imagine makes the shaft steeper]
     * Chest, hands and club head are working together
     * Drill:
       + Grip the club near the ferrule
       + Allow the shaft to remain in contact with the front hip
       + Take the club back
       + Rotate forward to the finish
   - Release 2 - Soft landing shot:
     * Uses the middle section of the bounce
     * Need a reasonable lie
     * Can use your sand wedge 56° (or 54-58°) but probably not 60° or more
     * Just past impact, the shaft points toward your belt buckle (i.e. a little cupping in the lead wrist)
     * Ball slightly further away than release 1
     * Flare the lead foot more
     * Ball forward in your stance
     * Hands remain close to the body
     * Really light grip pressure (which allows the club to swing itself)
     * Immediately before the downswing, the toe of the club should be pointing up
     * Don't rush; let the bounce slide under the ball
     * Keep your chest moving
   - Release 3 - Lob shot:
     * Uses the trailing section of the bounce
     * Need a reasonable lie i.e. sandy lie is ok but hard-pan is not
     * Also suitable for a bunker shot
     * Just past impact, the shaft points toward your trailing (right) hip (i.e. maximum cupping in the lead wrist)
     * Wider stance
     * Ball forward
     * Shaft neutral (no forward shaft lean)
     * Longer (braver), wristier swing; arms may go horizontal during the backswing
     * More conscious release than release 2 (where gravity did the work during the downswing)
     * You must keep turning
     * Hands remain close to the body
     * At the finish, the club goes *in the holster*
   - Demos:
     * Release 2: [Stopping the dig! | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BS6x0DWAvqg)

1. [The Dan Grieve Short Game Practice Routine! 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6AyhWS_gSI4)
   - Release 1, 2 & 3

1. [The setup and swing you need to hit perfect pitch shots | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pkv5TS32G78)

1. [The Top-5 Short Game Mistakes! | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M4dgOS_YbtQ)

1. [Adapting your short game to summer conditions | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tGxUhDdphFc)
   - Short game IQ
   - Club Selection | Mini Release 2 Shots | Grip Pressure | Bunker Play |
     Severe Slopes | Pitching | Hard Pan | The Rough | Putting off the green

1. [Adjusting your short game for winter golf | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0iffBfVRJos)

1. [Dan Grieve | Dan and Collin Morikawa talk short game | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=onss4R-RWh8&t=4m40s)
   - [4m40s] Bunker section
     * Wide stance
     * Brace with knees outwards to help prevent knees from buckling (and bringing your level lower)

1. [Dan Grieve | Rachel Drummond learns The Three Releases | A lesson with Dan | Episode 1 | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CfSoslFUdU0)


1. [Instagram: dangrievegolf](https://www.instagram.com/dangrievegolf/)
   - [SOFT LANDING SHOT: Improving consistency](https://www.instagram.com/reel/C2cwfKPN5E7/)
     * Release 2
     * Lighten the grip pressure
     * Folding the right arm in the backswing
     * Smoothing out the tempo
   - [BUNKERS: Key set-up points](https://www.instagram.com/dangrievegolf/reel/DAdhemXN4a2/)
     * Stood further away with a wider stance
     * Opened the face more
     * Sat down into the heels
     * Lowered the hands at address
   - [BUNKER SET-UP: Building solid fundamentals](https://www.instagram.com/dangrievegolf/reel/C-tD4QCt8FF/)
     * wider stance
     * flare the lead foot out
     * place approximately 70% [of your] weight on the lead side


## Other channels featuring Dan Grieve

1. [Inci Mehmet | DAN GRIEVES TIPS FIXED MY YIPS! | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xJyi3BgBiDs&t=5m1s)
   - This video appears to be teaching/recapping release 1

1. [Rick Shiels Golf | This Golf Lesson Changed my LIFE! | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4yLYYz_5Z8c)
   [3m43s]
   - [6m30s] Release 1 - Chip and run (low trajectory)
     * 3/10 grip pressure (very loose)
     * Level shoulders (not right shoulder down)
     * Pivot around *stacked* left side
     * Left foot flared
     * Wide, connected takeaway
     * Use the front of the bounce
     * Sternum just in front of the ball
     * Release 1: Shaft handle points to the left hip shortly after impact
       *and* club head stops lower than the hands
     * Hips must rotate during backswing and follow through
     * Rehearse the arc in the swing without a club (not a linear swing)
     * Drill: Grip the club near the ferrule... (see notes re earlier video)
     * Slow transition
     * This technique exposes the bounce more, hence is more forgiving
       (i.e. gives a reasonable result if you to hit it a little heavy/fat)
   - [23m55s] Release 2 - Soft landing shot (mid trajectory)
     * Aside: 60° wedge is for *emergency use only*
     * Grip pressure, shoulders, pivot and flared left foot all as per release 1
     * Use the middle of the bounce
     * Hit the ground behind the ball!!!
     * Sternum just in front of the ball
     * Release 2: Shaft handle points to the belt buckle shortly after impact
     * Aim to hit the ground 1 inch before the ball; hitting 3 inches before 
       the ball is probably ok (but hitting thin is not)
     * Hands lower than release 1 at address
     * Let the hands *fall* at transition
     * Hands finish close to the left hip
     * Drill:
       + Feel the club head fall by swinging with thumbs off the handle
       + Just before impact, support the swing by rotating the chest
     * Let the left upper arm almost stall just after impact (while
       the lower arm releases)
     * Drill to feel release 2:
       + While swinging the club with the left arm, hold the left upper
         arm against the chest (with the right hand)
       + Feel the left lower arm release
       + Feel the left upper arm being connected to the chest
   - [48m04s] Bunker
     * Pads of the hands come off the grip before putting the club
       in the holster
     * Feel the right arm move across your stomach after impact
   - [1h01m52s] Release 3 - Lob shot

1. [On the Road with Iona | My Lesson With The Best Short Game Coach In The World! | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uahu3OKYsxs)
   - Golf IQ: What shot to play? Consider the following factors in this order: Lie first, then Landing zone and finally Loft

1. [Gaz's Golf | I Had A Lesson With Best Coach In The World | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eknWaPzaTjs)

1. [GOLF LIFE: Jimmy Bullard | Can Dan Grieve TRANSFORM Jimmy Bullard’s Short Game?! | Road To The Open EP2 | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=krnVlrGhC4A)

1. Golf Monthly
   - [Beginners Guide To Chipping: Dan Grieve shares some expert advice and drills on the chipping basics | 2022](https://www.golfmonthly.com/videos/short-game-tips/beginners-guide-to-chipping)
   - [HOW TO SPIN YOUR CHIP SHOTS... DAN GRIEVE'S TOP TIPS! | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bS_JWkq6hlY)
     * Release 1 & 2
   - [LIVE BUNKER LESSON WITH DAN GRIEVE! 25 Handicap Golfer Fixed | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ntQ-YnlmyC4)
   - [DAN GRIEVE ON HOW TO ESCAPE BAD LIES! Lesson With 8-Handicap Jess Ratcliffe | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-9BFSfcwPMY)
     * Jess Ratcliffe
     * Tricky Shot Out The Rough
     * [Excerpt from above](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-L7Rqq_heaI)

1. Jess Ratcliffe Golf
   - [How I'm Learning Dan Grieve's Release 1 & 2 (From Dan's Book) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ePrSvB21wdU)

1. Golf Pride Grips
   - [Short Game Series with Dan Grieve – Using Hand Placement on Grip to Control Trajectory | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M-f8ulaQqB8)
   - [Short Game Series with Dan Grieve – Mastering Bunker Play with ALIGN | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T3LaSEjh410)

Commit message:

In people folder, indicate video links

people/Links_DanGrieve.md, after:

# Dan Grieve

Short game expert. Specialises in:

- Chipping: releases 1, 2 and 3
- Bunker shots
- Pitching
- Short game IQ: e.g. Lie, landing then loft

## Dan Grieve

1. [The Three Releases: Simplicity when chipping! (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SfaxE8Ec-hk)
   - How to easily alter ball flight and spin
   - You need an ok lie for releases 2 and 3
   - Release 1 - Chip and run:
     * Uses the front section of the bounce
     * Will work from almost any lie
     * Can use almost any club, e.g. 56° for nearby pin or 8 iron
       for distant pin
     * Just past impact, the shaft points toward your lead (left) hip
     * Use a small amount of forward shaft lean
     * Fairly level shoulders
     * Light grip
     * Lead hands in a high position (with straight wrist) which
       discourages wrist hinge [and I imagine makes the shaft steeper]
     * Chest, hands and club head are working together
     * Drill:
       + Grip the club near the ferrule
       + Allow the shaft to remain in contact with the front hip
       + Take the club back
       + Rotate forward to the finish
   - Release 2 - Soft landing shot:
     * Uses the middle section of the bounce
     * Need a reasonable lie
     * Can use your sand wedge 56° (or 54-58°) but probably not 60° or more
     * Just past impact, the shaft points toward your belt buckle (i.e. a little cupping in the lead wrist)
     * Ball slightly further away than release 1
     * Flare the lead foot more
     * Ball forward in your stance
     * Hands remain close to the body
     * Really light grip pressure (which allows the club to swing itself)
     * Immediately before the downswing, the toe of the club should be pointing up
     * Don't rush; let the bounce slide under the ball
     * Keep your chest moving
   - Release 3 - Lob shot:
     * Uses the trailing section of the bounce
     * Need a reasonable lie i.e. sandy lie is ok but hard-pan is not
     * Also suitable for a bunker shot
     * Just past impact, the shaft points toward your trailing (right) hip (i.e. maximum cupping in the lead wrist)
     * Wider stance
     * Ball forward
     * Shaft neutral (no forward shaft lean)
     * Longer (braver), wristier swing; arms may go horizontal during the backswing
     * More conscious release than release 2 (where gravity did the work during the downswing)
     * You must keep turning
     * Hands remain close to the body
     * At the finish, the club goes *in the holster*
   - Demos:
     * Release 2: [Stopping the dig! (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BS6x0DWAvqg)

1. [The Dan Grieve Short Game Practice Routine! (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6AyhWS_gSI4)
   - Release 1, 2 & 3

1. [The setup and swing you need to hit perfect pitch shots (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pkv5TS32G78)

1. [The Top-5 Short Game Mistakes! (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M4dgOS_YbtQ)

1. [Adapting your short game to summer conditions (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tGxUhDdphFc)
   - Short game IQ
   - Club Selection | Mini Release 2 Shots | Grip Pressure | Bunker Play |
     Severe Slopes | Pitching | Hard Pan | The Rough | Putting off the green

1. [Adjusting your short game for winter golf (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0iffBfVRJos)

1. [Dan Grieve | Dan and Collin Morikawa talk short game (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=onss4R-RWh8&t=4m40s)
   - [4m40s] Bunker section
     * Wide stance
     * Brace with knees outwards to help prevent knees from buckling (and bringing your level lower)

1. [Dan Grieve | Rachel Drummond learns The Three Releases | A lesson with Dan | Episode 1 (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CfSoslFUdU0)


1. [Instagram: dangrievegolf](https://www.instagram.com/dangrievegolf/)
   - [SOFT LANDING SHOT: Improving consistency](https://www.instagram.com/reel/C2cwfKPN5E7/)
     * Release 2
     * Lighten the grip pressure
     * Folding the right arm in the backswing
     * Smoothing out the tempo
   - [BUNKERS: Key set-up points](https://www.instagram.com/dangrievegolf/reel/DAdhemXN4a2/)
     * Stood further away with a wider stance
     * Opened the face more
     * Sat down into the heels
     * Lowered the hands at address
   - [BUNKER SET-UP: Building solid fundamentals](https://www.instagram.com/dangrievegolf/reel/C-tD4QCt8FF/)
     * wider stance
     * flare the lead foot out
     * place approximately 70% [of your] weight on the lead side


## Other channels featuring Dan Grieve

1. [Inci Mehmet | DAN GRIEVES TIPS FIXED MY YIPS! (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xJyi3BgBiDs&t=5m1s)
   - This video appears to be teaching/recapping release 1

1. [Rick Shiels Golf | This Golf Lesson Changed my LIFE! (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4yLYYz_5Z8c)
   [3m43s]
   - [6m30s] Release 1 - Chip and run (low trajectory)
     * 3/10 grip pressure (very loose)
     * Level shoulders (not right shoulder down)
     * Pivot around *stacked* left side
     * Left foot flared
     * Wide, connected takeaway
     * Use the front of the bounce
     * Sternum just in front of the ball
     * Release 1: Shaft handle points to the left hip shortly after impact
       *and* club head stops lower than the hands
     * Hips must rotate during backswing and follow through
     * Rehearse the arc in the swing without a club (not a linear swing)
     * Drill: Grip the club near the ferrule... (see notes re earlier video)
     * Slow transition
     * This technique exposes the bounce more, hence is more forgiving
       (i.e. gives a reasonable result if you to hit it a little heavy/fat)
   - [23m55s] Release 2 - Soft landing shot (mid trajectory)
     * Aside: 60° wedge is for *emergency use only*
     * Grip pressure, shoulders, pivot and flared left foot all as per release 1
     * Use the middle of the bounce
     * Hit the ground behind the ball!!!
     * Sternum just in front of the ball
     * Release 2: Shaft handle points to the belt buckle shortly after impact
     * Aim to hit the ground 1 inch before the ball; hitting 3 inches before 
       the ball is probably ok (but hitting thin is not)
     * Hands lower than release 1 at address
     * Let the hands *fall* at transition
     * Hands finish close to the left hip
     * Drill:
       + Feel the club head fall by swinging with thumbs off the handle
       + Just before impact, support the swing by rotating the chest
     * Let the left upper arm almost stall just after impact (while
       the lower arm releases)
     * Drill to feel release 2:
       + While swinging the club with the left arm, hold the left upper
         arm against the chest (with the right hand)
       + Feel the left lower arm release
       + Feel the left upper arm being connected to the chest
   - [48m04s] Bunker
     * Pads of the hands come off the grip before putting the club
       in the holster
     * Feel the right arm move across your stomach after impact
   - [1h01m52s] Release 3 - Lob shot

1. [On the Road with Iona | My Lesson With The Best Short Game Coach In The World! (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uahu3OKYsxs)
   - Golf IQ: What shot to play? Consider the following factors in this order: Lie first, then Landing zone and finally Loft

1. [Gaz's Golf | I Had A Lesson With Best Coach In The World (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eknWaPzaTjs)

1. [GOLF LIFE: Jimmy Bullard | Can Dan Grieve TRANSFORM Jimmy Bullard’s Short Game?! | Road To The Open EP2 (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=krnVlrGhC4A)

1. Golf Monthly
   - [Beginners Guide To Chipping: Dan Grieve shares some expert advice and drills on the chipping basics | 2022](https://www.golfmonthly.com/videos/short-game-tips/beginners-guide-to-chipping)
   - [HOW TO SPIN YOUR CHIP SHOTS... DAN GRIEVE'S TOP TIPS! (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bS_JWkq6hlY)
     * Release 1 & 2
   - [LIVE BUNKER LESSON WITH DAN GRIEVE! 25 Handicap Golfer Fixed (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ntQ-YnlmyC4)
   - [DAN GRIEVE ON HOW TO ESCAPE BAD LIES! Lesson With 8-Handicap Jess Ratcliffe (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-9BFSfcwPMY)
     * Jess Ratcliffe
     * Tricky Shot Out The Rough
     * [Excerpt from above](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-L7Rqq_heaI)

1. Jess Ratcliffe Golf
   - [How I'm Learning Dan Grieve's Release 1 & 2 (From Dan's Book) (video) | 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ePrSvB21wdU)

1. Golf Pride Grips
   - [Short Game Series with Dan Grieve – Using Hand Placement on Grip to Control Trajectory (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M-f8ulaQqB8)
   - [Short Game Series with Dan Grieve – Mastering Bunker Play with ALIGN (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T3LaSEjh410)
