golfcourses/README.md, before:

# Golf courses in South Australia

- All or most of the links below have some golf courses missing from their databases.
- Some links below list courses which have closed.


## Search

1. [Golf Australia | Where to play](https://www.golf.org.au/courseSearch/)
   - Search for Australian golf courses via:
     * Facility name or postcode
     * Distance
     * Type of golf e.g. Golf course, Public course, Driving range
   - Great for finding courses near a particular town or suburb
   - 116 "golf courses" found within "250km" of the Adelaide CBD "postcode 5000" (at the time of writing)
   - Find Australian postcodes [here](https://auspost.com.au/postcode)

1. [Golfer | Find a course](https://golfer.com.au/directory/golf-courses/2?menu=10)
   - Search by Australian state and region
   - Filter by first letter of the golf course, A-Z
   - 79 golf courses found within the "SA" "region" (at the time of writing)

1. [Ausgolf | Club & Course Search](https://www.ausgolf.com.au/guide/)
   - Type in the first few letters of the golf course name
   - Unable to filter by Australian state, region, postcode, distance, etc.


## Lists

1. [GOLFSelect | Golf Courses in South Australia](https://www.golfselect.com.au/armchair/courselist?state=SA)
   - 135 golf courses listed in SA (at the time of writing)

1. [Hole19 | Golf Courses in South Australia](https://www.hole19golf.com/golf-courses/south-australia)
   - 112 golf courses listed in SA (at the time of writing) in the *All courses* section at the bottom
   - The list does not appear to be sorted

1. [GolfPass | South Australia Golf Guide](https://www.golfpass.com/travel-advisor/course-directory/8713-south-australia/)
   - 61 golf courses listed in SA (at the time of writing)


## Articles

1. [Project Golf Australia | 27 Best Adelaide Golf Courses You Should Play At Least Once | 2021-2023](https://projectgolfau.com/best-adelaide-golf-courses/)

Commit message:

Add text file with a list of Hole19 SA golf courses

golfcourses/README.md, after:

# Golf courses in South Australia

- All or most of the links below have some golf courses missing from their databases.
- Some links below list courses which have closed.


## Search

1. [Golf Australia | Where to play](https://www.golf.org.au/courseSearch/)
   - Search for Australian golf courses via:
     * Facility name or postcode
     * Distance
     * Type of golf e.g. Golf course, Public course, Driving range
   - Great for finding courses near a particular town or suburb
   - 116 "golf courses" found within "250km" of the Adelaide CBD "postcode 5000" (at the time of writing)
   - Find Australian postcodes [here](https://auspost.com.au/postcode)

1. [Golfer | Find a course](https://golfer.com.au/directory/golf-courses/2?menu=10)
   - Search by Australian state and region
   - Filter by first letter of the golf course, A-Z
   - 79 golf courses found within the "SA" "region" (at the time of writing)

1. [Ausgolf | Club & Course Search](https://www.ausgolf.com.au/guide/)
   - Type in the first few letters of the golf course name
   - Unable to filter by Australian state, region, postcode, distance, etc.


## Lists

1. [GOLFSelect | Golf Courses in South Australia](https://www.golfselect.com.au/armchair/courselist?state=SA)
   - 135 golf courses listed in SA (at the time of writing)

1. [Hole19 | Golf Courses in South Australia](https://www.hole19golf.com/golf-courses/south-australia)
   - 112 golf courses listed in SA (at the time of writing) in the *All courses* section at the bottom
   - The list does not appear to be sorted and there are some duplicates
   - [Here](hole19golf-golfcourses-sa-230408f.txt) is the same list which has been sorted alphabetically
     and duplicates removed (now 95 golf courses)

1. [GolfPass | South Australia Golf Guide](https://www.golfpass.com/travel-advisor/course-directory/8713-south-australia/)
   - 61 golf courses listed in SA (at the time of writing)


## Articles

1. [Project Golf Australia | 27 Best Adelaide Golf Courses You Should Play At Least Once | 2021-2023](https://projectgolfau.com/best-adelaide-golf-courses/)
